Finalised Guidance
FG24/3

Finalised non‑handbook guidance
on the Anti‑Greenwashing Rule

April 2024

Finalised guidance

Contents

Sign up for our news and
publications alerts

See all our latest press releases,
consultations and speeches.

1.

Introduction

3

2.

Guidance on the anti‑greenwashing rule

5

3.

Feedback Statement

14

Annex 1
List of non‑confidential respondents

19

Annex 2
Abbreviations used in this paper

21

Finalised guidance

Chapter 1

Introduction
Background
1.1

The anti‑greenwashing rule is one part of a package of measures we finalised in November
2023 through our Policy Statement (PS) on Sustainability Disclosure Requirements (SDR)
and investment labels (PS23/16). When we published PS23/16 we consulted on general
guidance to support the implementation of the anti‑greenwashing rule.

1.2

There is significant consumer interest in sustainable products and services. Our
Financial Lives Survey (2022) shows that 74% of adults surveyed agreed that
environmental issues are really important to them and 79% agreed businesses have a
wider social responsibility than simply making a profit. As the demand for sustainable
products and services grows, so does the risk of ‘greenwashing’. As firms increasingly
make sustainability‑related claims about their products and services, there are concerns
that some of these may be exaggerated, misleading, and unsubstantiated.

1.3

Tackling greenwashing is a priority for us. We want to protect consumers against
greenwashing so they can make informed decisions that are aligned with their
sustainability preferences. But we also want to create a level playing field for firms in an
evolving market, whose products and services genuinely represent a more sustainable
choice and who are making genuine claims about their products’ and services’
sustainability characteristics. If stakeholders trust the sustainability‑related claims firms
are making about their products and services, this may increase confidence in markets
and the flow of capital into these products.

1.4

We introduced the anti‑greenwashing rule to clarify to firms that sustainability‑related
claims about their products and services must be fair, clear and not misleading. It gives
us an explicit rule on which to challenge firms if we consider they are making misleading
sustainability‑related claims about their products or services and, if appropriate, take
further action.

1.5

This Guidance is designed to help firms understand and implement our anti‑greenwashing
rule, following feedback from some respondents to our consultation paper (CP) on SDR
and investment labels (CP22/20) asking for guidance.

How this links to our objectives
1.6

This Guidance is compatible with our strategic objective to make markets function well,
by increasing transparency on the sustainability features of products and services and
reducing the risk of harm arising from greenwashing.

3

Finalised guidance

1.7

It is intended to advance our operational objectives by helping firms ensure that, as
product and service offerings evolve, sustainability‑related claims stand up to scrutiny
and consumers are protected from potentially misleading or inaccurate information.
Increasing the transparency and accuracy of sustainability‑related claims which are
made about products and services should also help enhance the integrity and credibility
of the market for sustainable finance and ensure that competition remains effective.

1.8

The Guidance is also consistent with our secondary international competitiveness and
growth objective. It should enable both consumers and firms to have better confidence
in identifying sustainable products and making informed purchases. Better industry
standards should help to improve market integrity and build on the UK’s reputation
and leading international position in the sustainable finance market, helping to attract
sustainable investments to support a thriving economy.

1.9

In developing the anti‑greenwashing rule and guidance, we considered the regulatory
principles in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 including that, where relevant
to the exercise of our functions, we contribute towards achieving the UK’s net zero
emissions target. We also considered the Chancellor’s latest remit letter, which asked us
to have regard to the Government’s ambitions for the provision of sustainable finance.

Summary of consultation
1.10

The consultation on this Guidance closed on 26 January 2024. We received 69 responses.

1.11

The feedback was broadly positive and supportive of both the Guidance and our
initiative to minimise greenwashing.

1.12

The main areas of feedback related to the examples given and requests for further
clarity on our expectations. This included calls for more examples covering a broader
range of sectors, examples of good practice, and examples that include social as well
as environmental scenarios. Some respondents commented on the implementation
timeline. Additionally, many respondents asked us to clarify the scope of the
anti‑greenwashing rule and its interaction with other parts of the FCA Handbook.

1.13

We have considered the feedback and set out our finalised Guidance in Chapter 2.
We have included a Feedback Statement in Chapter 3 which summarises the feedback
and our response.

1.14

The Guidance is intended to help firms comply with the anti‑greenwashing rule. It is
consistent with existing expectations and does not create new obligations for firms.
Firms may consider the Guidance as appropriate, depending on the nature of their
business and the sustainability‑related claims they make.

4

Finalised guidance

Chapter 2

Guidance on the anti‑greenwashing rule
Scope
2.1

Our anti‑greenwashing rule, in the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Sourcebook (ESG 4.3.1R), requires firms to ensure that any reference to the
sustainability characteristics of a product or service is: consistent with the sustainability
characteristics of the product or service, and is fair, clear and not misleading.

2.2

The terms ‘environmental’, ‘social’ and ‘governance’ are used to refer to sustainability
matters. However, there is no single definition of ‘sustainability’. In PS23/16 we
said that we consider governance to be an enabler of environmental and/or social
outcomes, rather than an end in itself, and we refer to ‘sustainability characteristics’ as
environmental or social characteristics.

2.3

Our anti‑greenwashing rule applies when a firm:
•
•

communicates with clients in the UK in relation to a product or service, or
communicates a financial promotion (or approves a financial promotion for
communication) to a person in the UK.

2.4

The rule applies with respect to references to sustainability characteristics
(environmental and/or social characteristics) of a product or service.

2.5

The rule applies in relation to financial products and services which FCA-authorised
firms make available for clients in the UK. This includes financial promotions that
authorised firms communicate or approve for unauthorised persons (including for
overseas products and services where the promotion is approved in the UK).

2.6

Firms are nevertheless subject to other rules including those that govern claims about
the firm itself (as outlined below).

2.7

References to sustainability characteristics could be present in (but are not limited to)
communications that include statements, assertions, strategies, targets, policies,
information, and images relating to a product or service.

2.8

The rule applies to all authorised firms irrespective of whether they are subject to the
Consumer Duty. Any reference to the Consumer Duty in this Guidance is designed to
help firms interpret how the rule and the Duty interact, where relevant.

2.9

We recognise that some authorised firms operate a business‑to‑business model,
as opposed to a customer‑to‑business model. For this reason, we have used the
term ‘audience’ in this Guidance to better capture the client or person that firm may
be communicating with. This may be, for example, existing or prospective clients,
customers, consumers, or businesses.
5

Finalised guidance

Existing requirements and related guidance
2.10

Various sections of our Handbook already require most firms to ensure the information
they communicate is fair, clear and not misleading. This includes the Principles for
Businesses (PRIN) that apply, in whole or in part, to most firms. Some sections of the
Handbook also elaborate on what the ‘fair, clear and not misleading’ requirement means
in specific contexts. For example, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.2 adds
further prescription around financial promotions for investments and the Consumer
Credit Sourcebook 3.3 adds detail for consumer credit.

2.11

The anti‑greenwashing rule is intended to complement and be consistent with these
rules. It is not a substitute for, and is not intended to override, any other rules in the
Handbook where firms may be subject to fair, clear and not misleading rules in specific
circumstances. We included guidance in the relevant sourcebooks to remind firms of the
anti‑greenwashing rule when they comply with other obligations.

2.12

Firms subject to the Consumer Duty will also need to consider its rules. Our
expectations under the anti‑greenwashing rule for the retail market are consistent
with the Duty. For example, we expect firms to act in good faith towards their retail
customers, and to enable and support them to pursue their financial objectives.
Similarly, under the consumer understanding outcome rules, in PRIN 2A.5, firms
should give retail customers the information they need, presented in a way they are
likely to understand, and that equips them to make effective, timely and properly
informed decisions.

2.13

Firms are also subject to other legislation and guidance that applies to
sustainability‑related claims. This includes existing consumer protection law, which
covers what firms say, how they present it and what they fail to say about the
environmental impacts or credentials of their products, services, brands, and activities.
The Competition and Market Authority’s (CMA) guidance on environmental claims is
designed to help firms understand and comply with their obligations under consumer
protection law.

2.14

Our anti‑greenwashing rule and guidance is consistent with the CMA’s guidance on
environmental claims and the requirements of the Advertising Standards Authority’s
(ASA) guidance. We have worked closely with the CMA and ASA to ensure consistency.

2.15

While the scope of the anti‑greenwashing rule relates to products and services,
we remind firms that the CMA and ASA’s guidance and FCA Principles 6 and 7 or,
as relevant, the Consumer Duty (Principle 12 and the rules in PRIN 2A), apply to
sustainability‑related claims that a firm may make about itself as a firm.

6

Finalised guidance

Expectations and examples
2.16

This Guidance is designed to help firms understand our expectations under the
anti‑greenwashing rule.

2.17

In practice, the effect of the anti‑greenwashing rule and the other rules mentioned
above mean the following:

Sustainability references should be:
Correct and capable of being
substantiated

Clear and presented in a way that
can be understood

Complete – they should not omit
or hide important information and
should consider the full life cycle of the
product or service

Comparisons to other products or
services are fair and meaningful

7

Finalised guidance

The examples below were created for the purposes of this Guidance and are designed to
help firms understand what the core principles of the Guidance mean in practice. They
are not exhaustive. The Guidance often refers to references that firms make about the
sustainability characteristics of products and services as ‘claims’.

2.18

Claims should be correct and capable of being substantiated

The claims firms make should be factually correct. Firms should not state or imply
features of a product or service that are not true. Nor should they overstate or
exaggerate a product or service’s sustainability or positive environmental and/or
social impact. Claims should only give the impression that a product or service has the
sustainability characteristics that it really has. Claims can also be misleading if they
provide conflicting or contradictory information.

2.19

A firm’s products or services should do what they say they do. They should live up to the
claims made, and firms should be able to support those claims with robust and credible
evidence. Claims should be capable of being substantiated at the point in time at which
they are made. Firms should think carefully about whether they have the appropriate
evidence to support their claims.

2.20

It is also important that firms regularly review their claims and any evidence that supports
them, to ensure the evidence is still relevant for so long as those claims are being
communicated (eg, a financial promotion is live). Firms should also ensure that their
claims remain compliant with the anti‑greenwashing rule on an ongoing basis. Firms
which approve financial promotions subject to the rules in COBS 4 should consider
compliance with the anti‑greenwashing rule as part of their monitoring of the ongoing
compliance of the financial promotion which they have approved.

2.21

Where a firm’s claim makes specific reference to the evidence that supports it, they may
want to consider whether it would be helpful to make that evidence publicly available in
an easily accessible way.

Example 1

A firm makes a promotional statement that an investment fund is ‘fossil fuel free’.
However, the terms and conditions explain that the investment fund includes
investments in companies involved in the production, selling, and distribution of
fossil fuels where the company’s revenue earned from those activities is below a
certain threshold.
So, the companies within the investment fund are not ‘fossil fuel free’. This
statement is not factually correct and is not capable of being substantiated, which
makes the claim misleading.

8

Finalised guidance

Example 2

In the promotions for a fund, an investment manager prominently displays a
claim that all investments are reviewed for their sustainability characteristics.
However, not all investments are systematically reviewed for their sustainability
characteristics, and sustainability characteristics are not always factored into the
investment manager's decisions.
There is a risk that the investment manager is overstating the extent to which
they consider the sustainability characteristics of investments in the fund and
that this claim cannot be substantiated. Should the investment manager wish to
make this claim, all their investments should be consistently reviewed for their
sustainability characteristics, and the investment manager should hold evidence
to demonstrate how they do this and how the review is factored into their
decision‑making process. The investment manager may want to consider whether
to make this information publicly available in an easily accessible way.

Example 3 (good practice)

A firm advertises a fund which makes social sustainability claims, including
statements that it invests in companies that have good labour practices in line
with international best practice. The fund manager establishes clear and robust
standards for selecting investee companies – it has chosen to include fair wages,
safe working conditions and other criteria that align with international frameworks
and standards. It assesses and monitors the investments that it has selected,
and seeks to address any issues that arise while holding the investment through
appropriate escalation. Its marketing materials include a clear explanation of the
investment objectives and strategy, including its standards for selecting investee
companies and the types of holdings in the fund.

2.22

2.23

Claims should be clear and presented in a way that can be understood
The claims firms make should be transparent and straightforward, and firms should
consider whether the meaning of all the terms would be understood by the intended
audience. For example, technical language may be difficult to understand, so firms
should consider whether any technical terms could be explained for the intended
audience, unless their meaning is clear and widely understood. The use of broad
terms or general statements may be also unclear and confusing. Firms should not
use terms that might give the impression that a product or service has sustainability
characteristics that it does not have.

Firms should consider whether the information they are providing is useful for the
intended audience. Where a claim is being communicated to a professional client, firms
may not need to include the same information or present it in the same way as they
would for a communication addressed to a retail client.
9

Finalised guidance

2.24

Firms should also be aware of the overall impression a visual presentation of a claim
can create. The images, logos and colours used are an important part of the overall
presentation of a claim. Firms should consider how images, logos and colours together
may be perceived by the audience when presented alongside other sustainability
characteristics of a product or service. Claims may be undermined if what they say is
factually correct, but their visual presentation conveys a different impression.

2.25

This Guidance does not extend to the use of images, logos, and colours in a context not
intended to refer to, or describe, the sustainability characteristics of a product or service
(although other rules may apply).

2.26

If firms are subject to the Consumer Duty, they should test their communications
where appropriate. This testing should check that communications are likely to
be understood by customers and meet their information needs so they can make
effective, timely and properly informed decisions. Firms should consider if it would be
appropriate to test communications relating to a product or service, where they are
making sustainability‑related claims. Our consumer research on SDR and investment
labels summarises our consumer testing findings, which shaped our final rules, and
includes some considerations for asset management firms developing consumer‑facing
disclosures.

2.27

Firms subject to the Duty should also ensure they have the necessary information to
understand and monitor customer outcomes. This includes, where relevant, checking
if customers are equipped with the information to make effective, timely and properly
informed decisions. It also includes being able to assess the overall customer outcomes
when they purchase a product or service or when they interact with a firm. For example,
whether they can use the products or services as expected, the value that they receive,
and whether they may be subject to harm. Where firms identify any problems, they
should investigate and correct any deficiencies.

Example 4

A firm has a large image of a rainforest at the top of its webpage about its savings
accounts, with an overlay of text that reads ‘Sustainable Savings’. The webpage
includes its ‘Green Savings Account’ alongside a list of other savings accounts. Its
‘Green Savings Account’ uses deposits to lend to companies to fund sustainable
projects, while its other savings accounts do not.
In this case, the image of the rainforest on the savings account webpage coupled
with the text that reads ‘Sustainable Savings’ may give its audience the impression
that the firm will use deposits in all savings accounts to help create positive
sustainability outcomes. If only the deposits in its ‘Green Savings Account’ are
ringfenced to fund sustainable projects, the use of both words and images in this
way is potentially misleading as it gives the impression that the bank uses deposits
to finance sustainable projects through more of the savings accounts offered than it
actually does.

10

Finalised guidance

If the firm wishes to use a sustainability‑related image, they should use an
image that is consistent with the sustainability characteristics of the product or
service, and only use that image in relation to products and services with those
characteristics. In this case, it should only use the image and text for the ‘Green
Savings Account’, rather than all savings accounts.

2.28

Claims should be complete – they should not omit or hide important
information

Claims should give a representative picture of the product or service. Firms should not
omit or hide important information that might influence decision‑making.

2.29

Where claims are only true if certain conditions apply, those should be clearly and
prominently stated. Similarly, the limitations of any information, data or metrics used in a
claim should be clearly and prominently disclosed.

2.30

Claims should not highlight only positive sustainability impacts where this disguises
negative impacts. Firms should present claims in a balanced way and not focus solely on
a product or service’s positive sustainability characteristics, where other aspects may
have a negative impact on sustainability.

2.31

Similarly, firms should consider the life cycle of a product or service, as appropriate,
when making sustainability‑related claims. Firms should base their claims on the full life
cycle of the product or service. Otherwise, for example in cases where certain elements
of the life cycle may be more of interest in a consumer’s decision‑making process, firms
should be clear about which part of the life cycle the claim relates to. Firms should not
cherry‑pick information as this may give the impression that a product or service has
sustainability characteristics that it does not have.

2.32

Firms should consider what information is necessary to include for the claim to give a
representative picture of the product or service. Firms should also consider whether
information about the firm itself may be considered part of the ‘representative
picture’ of a product or service. It is important that those claims meet the relevant
rules and expectations (as outlined above) so that the overall picture is fair, clear and
not misleading.

Example 5

A bank promotes bonds and makes claims about their sustainability impact. The
bonds are used to finance a range of sustainability projects including renewable
energy and improving companies’ energy efficiency. However, eligible activities
also include projects to improve the efficiency of fossil fuel energy production and
distribution – information which is not included in the promotional materials.

11

Finalised guidance

Omitting this information is potentially misleading for its audience as from
the marketing materials consumers may not expect these bonds to include
investments in projects related to fossil fuels. The firm should be transparent in
its promotional materials about what the eligible activities might include. The firm
could also explain how the projects can contribute to sustainability impact so that
its consumers can better understand why they are eligible.

Example 6

A commonly tracked benchmark claims to be ‘sustainable’, by excluding
companies with ESG ratings ‘lower than 3’. The benchmark administrator does
not specify what the rating aims to assess, for example, whether it assesses
sustainability‑related risks or impact. It also does not specify the scale the rating
uses, which could be 1‑10, and does not disclose the rationale for choosing an
ESG score of 3 as the appropriate threshold. It could, in reality, not be a high bar, as
standards may vary across markets.
The benchmark administrator does not give its audience complete information
and so does not make it clear whether and how the benchmark is representing
sustainable objectives. This could result in users and ultimately end‑investors
being misled about the sustainability outcomes of the benchmark.

Example 7 (good practice)

A fund manager advertises its asset selection process as ‘focused on supporting
carbon intensive companies with credible transition plans to finance their
decarbonisation’. The fund promoted invests in Sustainability‑Linked Bonds (SLBs).
In its marketing materials to potential investors the manager highlights how it
selects only those SLBs that meet criteria that are ‘in line with market standards
for best practice’.

To support this claim, the fund manager names the SLB framework it uses to
assess potential investments within the marketing materials. The marketing
materials also set out the qualities it looks for within SLBs to support compliance
with this framework – which in this case includes clear, measurable, and ambitious
performance indicators and sustainability performance targets linked to a
company’s transition plan, and routine reporting against these metrics which will
be independently verified.

12

Finalised guidance

2.33

Comparisons should be fair and meaningful

The claims firms make when comparing a product or service, either to one of their
previous versions or to a competitors’, should be fair and meaningful. Comparisons
should enable the audience to make informed choices about the products or services.

2.34

Claims comparing the sustainability characteristics of products and services should
make clear what is being compared, how a comparison is being made and should
compare like with like. Claims that appear to make market‑wide comparisons but are
based only on a limited sample have the potential to mislead their audience.

2.35

Firms should be careful when making claims about the extent to which a feature of a
product or service has sustainability characteristics when it may simply be meeting a
minimum standard of compliance with existing legal requirements. Such claims could be
misleading, as, while they may be true, they may also wrongly give the impression that
their product or service is superior to others available.

2.36

Where comparative claims are made, any evidence to substantiate those should cover
all products or services compared.

Example 8

A firm claims that by buying their investment bond, investors will ‘reduce emissions’
more than through buying other investment bonds on the market. However, the
firm does not make it clear to its audience that this comparison refers only to
Scope 1 emissions (as opposed to all emissions – Scope 1, 2 and 3) and was based
on a limited sample at a particular date.
The firm has picked information that paints a better picture of its investment
bond compared to others on the market. The claim does not make clear how the
comparison is being made or its limitations. The firm should make the limitations
of the comparative claim clear. In doing so, it should explain what is meant by
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, if this technical language is not widely understood by
the intended audience, and the limitations of covering only Scope 1 emissions. It
should clarify that the claim was based on a limited sample, explaining what the
sample was and the date on which that sample was taken.

13

Finalised guidance

Chapter 3
3.1

Feedback Statement

The following chapter summarises the feedback to our guidance consultation (GC23/3)
and our responses. We received 69 responses from a broad range of stakeholders
including trade bodies and industry groups, consumer groups, non‑governmental
organisations and firms from a variety of sectors. We provide a list of non‑confidential
respondents in Annex 1.

3.2

The updated Guidance in Chapter 2 reflects our response to feedback and includes
some further clarifications and new examples.

3.3

Overall, respondents broadly supported the Guidance and the practical examples.
They supported our outcome to minimise greenwashing and welcomed both the
anti‑greenwashing rule and guidance. Some stakeholders disagreed with certain
aspects of the guidance, such as the implementation date. However most comments
were calls for more examples covering a broader range of sectors and scenarios,
including in relation to social matters, as well as good practice. Many respondents also
asked us to clarify the scope of the anti‑greenwashing rule.
Question 1:

Does the proposed guidance clarify the anti‑greenwashing
rule? If not, what more could we do to provide clarity?

3.4

Some respondents asked us to clarify the scope of the anti‑greenwashing rule and
how the Guidance interacts with both the anti‑greenwashing rule and other rules that
reference ‘fair, clear and not misleading’, such as COBS 4.2. This included calls for us to
clarify whether the rule applies to the claims firms make about itself, firm‑level reports,
reports required under other requirements (including those in other jurisdictions) and
products and services that are unregulated or based overseas.

3.5

Some respondents asked us to clarify the interactions between the anti‑greenwashing
rule and the naming and marketing rules under the SDR regime for asset managers, and
some asked for further guidance in areas such as stewardship.

3.6

Some respondents asked us to define terminology such as ‘environmental/social
characteristics’ and to elaborate on some of the terms used in the guidance such as
‘complete’, ‘life cycle of a product’, ‘regular review’ and ‘periodically monitor’.

3.7

Some respondents asked for more clarity on our expectations when firms rely on
third parties for data and information, particularly around the level of substantiation
firms should have. There were calls for us to clarify whether firms following existing
industry standards for sustainability will meet the anti‑greenwashing rule. Some also
asked us whether firms can tailor information depending on whether they have retail or
professional clients.

3.8

Some respondents asked us to outline our supervision and enforcement approach and
explain where firms should prioritise implementation. Others asked if we will be updating
the guidance periodically.
14

Finalised guidance

Response
This Guidance is intended to help firms comply with the anti‑greenwashing
rule. Firms may consider this guidance in the context of the nature of
business and the sustainability‑related claims they are making in relation to
products and services.
We have clarified the scope of the rule in Chapter 2. This includes
clarifying that the rule is consistent with and complements existing
rules in the Handbook, where firms may be subject to fair, clear and not
misleading rules in specific circumstances. It is not a substitute for, nor
does it override those rules.

We clarified that the anti‑greenwashing rule applies in respect of
references to sustainability characteristics of financial products and
services, and financial promotions approved by UK firms for unauthorised
persons. Firms are subject to other rules and expectations regarding the
claims firms make about themselves and other firm‑level disclosures
but should nevertheless take into account how firm‑level claims may be
considered as part of the ‘representative picture’ in a decision‑making
process. Firms should also consider the expectations and obligations
under CMA guidance and ASA requirements.
Firms subject to the naming and marketing rules for asset managers
under the SDR and labelling regime must comply with those rules in
addition to the anti‑greenwashing rule (see our response to question 3
on timelines below). We have not provided further guidance on the wider
SDR and labelling regime and firms subject to the rules should refer to
PS23/16 and our webpage for further information.

We have kept this Guidance principles‑based so that it can be applied
across all sectors. Firms may consider the Guidance taking account
of the nature of their audience. For example, a communication to a
professional client or an eligible counterparty may not need to include the
same information, or be presented in the same way, as a communication
addressed to a retail client. Firms may also consider balancing the need for
clear information with sufficient detail so that the audience can understand
the claim. Where appropriate, consumer testing may be helpful.
Where firms rely on third parties for information, they should consider
the appropriateness of relying on data, research, analytical resources and
other information provided by third parties to substantiate the claims
they are making.
Firms should consider the type of evidence that would be appropriate to
ensure their claims are fair, clear and not misleading. This will depend on
factors such as the nature of the product or service and the claims they
are making. Our guidance is that firms should consider making evidence
public, although firms may determine it is not appropriate to do so.

15

Finalised guidance

We will take our usual supervisory and enforcement approaches. We may
take supervisory or enforcement action where we have reason to believe
that there is risk of consumer harm or where serious misconduct may
have taken place.

We will continue to provide support to industry on implementation of the
regime through stakeholder engagement, including webinars and events.
We will keep this Guidance under review and consider where we can build
on and add sector-specific examples.
Question 2:

Do you have any comments on the proposed guidance
including the examples given?

3.9

Most respondents supported the Guidance and examples provided. However, most
respondents suggested it would be helpful to provide examples of good practice to
illustrate how firms could be meeting the requirements. There were also calls for more
examples, covering different sectors and types of firm, including distributors, portfolio
managers, and examples for wholesale markets. Some respondents considered the
guidance too focused on investment products while others wanted further clarity on its
application to this sector. Many respondents called for examples on social claims.

3.10

In our wider work, we have had feedback from firms that they are concerned about
the risk of greenwashing associated with supporting high emitting companies that are
looking to reduce their carbon emissions over time.

3.11

Some respondents provided more detailed comments and considerations on the
examples in the consultation. This includes, for example, comments on the use of
images and colours and, more specifically, whether the anti‑greenwashing rule and
guidance captures a firm's branding and logo.
Response
We have included two additional examples in Chapter 2 in response to
feedback. However, the examples in this Guidance are not exhaustive,
and firms should consider how the principles of this Guidance apply in
relation to their business and the claims they are making. The examples
should not be treated as the only circumstances in which greenwashing
may occur or be avoided.
We have added more examples on good practice to illustrate how the
core principles of the guidance can be applied. We have included an
example to help demonstrate how claims about social characteristics
may be considered misleading. Where appropriate firms may wish to
consider if other industry guidance or standards could help provide
information that is more tailored to their sector.

16

Finalised guidance

We are undertaking wider work to understand the challenges that the
UK financial sector faces in providing transition finance with integrity to
support companies to reduce their carbon emissions and meet net zero
targets. To help firms, we have included an example in the Guidance to
show that funds, and the broader financial sector, can support sustainability
objectives though channelling finance to support net the zero transition.
We have sought to provide more clarity on the use of visuals in Chapter 2.
Should a firm wish to use an image in its sustainability‑related claims,
it should be consistent with the sustainability characteristics of the
product or service. This Guidance does not extend to the use of visuals
in a context not intended to refer to, or describe, the sustainability
characteristics of a product or service (although other rules may apply).
Question 3:

Do you agree that the guidance should come into force on
31 May 2024?

3.12

Most respondents were supportive of the guidance coming force on 31 May 2024,
alongside the anti‑greenwashing rule.

3.13

However, some respondents disagreed and said this would not be enough time for
firms to review their claims and ensure they are complying with the rule. Of those
that disagreed, most asked for the guidance to come into force on 2 December 2024,
alongside the naming and marketing rules for asset managers who are not using labels
but who are using sustainability‑related terms in their naming and marketing. Others
suggested bringing the guidance into force on 31 July 2024 to align with the date that
firms can start to use labels under the SDR and labelling regime, and the Consumer
Duty requirement for closed products. Others asked us to introduce an ‘implementation
period’ to allow firms time to review their claims and make any amendments without the
risk of enforcement action.
Response
As the anti‑greenwashing rule will come into force on 31 May 2024, we
are bringing the Guidance into force at the same time to provide firms
with clarity on our expectations when complying with the new rule.
This approach is consistent with the feedback we received to CP22/20,
calling for us to provide guidance to clarify our expectations on the
anti‑greenwashing rule.

For most firms, the rule does not introduce a new requirement as they
should already be ensuring their claims are ‘fair, clear and not misleading’
under existing FCA requirements. In response to feedback to CP22/20,
we did not bring the anti‑greenwashing rule into force on the date
of publishing the final regime as intended, and instead we allowed an
additional six months for firms to prepare if needed. We are therefore
not introducing an additional transition period for the Guidance.
We also remind firms of the ASA requirements and CMA guidance
17

Finalised guidance

around environmental claims that they should be adhering to already.
This Guidance is consistent with the existing guidance.

All authorised firms need to meet the anti‑greenwashing rule on
31 May 2024. Asset managers who are not using labels but are using
sustainability‑related terms in their naming and marketing will not
need to comply with the additional naming and marketing rules or
produce the associated disclosures under the SDR and labelling regime
until 2 December 2024. However, they must still comply with the
anti‑greenwashing rule from 31 May 2024 and ensure their sustainability
claims are fair, clear and not misleading and consistent with the
sustainability characteristics of the product and service.

18

Finalised guidance

Annex 1

List of non‑confidential respondents
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Alternative Investment Management Association (AIMA)
Association of British Insurers (ABI)
Association of Financial Mutuals (AFM)
Association of Foreign Banks (AFB)
Association of Investment Companies (AIC)
Association of Professional Compliance Consultants (APCC)
Association of Real Estate Funds (AREF)
BDO LLP
BlackRock
BlueMark
British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association (BVCA)
British Property Federation (BPF)
Building Societies Association (BSA)
ClientEarth
Consumer Scotland
Ecology Building Society
ESG Accord Ltd
Federated Hermes
Financial Inclusion Centre
Financial Services Consumer Panel
First Sentier Investors
INREV – European Association for Investors in Non‑Listed Real Estate Vehicles
International Capital Market Association (ICMA)
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA)
International Underwriting Association (IUA)
Investment Property Forum (IPF)
19

Finalised guidance

LaSalle Investment Management
Lending Standards Board (LSB)
Loan Market Association (LMA)
Melville Rodrigues Consulting LLP
MSCI
Nest Corporation
NorthPeak Advisory
Personal Investment Management & Financial Advice Association (PIMFA)
Phoenix Group
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
Rathbones Group Plc
ShareAction
Simmons & Simmons LLP
SimplyBiz Services Limited
Square Mile Investment Consulting and Research
SRI Services
The Big Exchange
The City of London Law Society (CLLS)
The Green Option Ltd (trading as The Green Insurer)
The Investment Association
The Lifescape Project
Triodos Bank UK
UK Finance
UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association (UKSIF)
XPS Pensions Group
Zurich
A number of respondents requested their responses to be treated as confidential and
we have treated responses from individuals as confidential.

20

Finalised guidance

Annex 2

Abbreviations used in this paper
Abbreviation

Description

ASA

Advertising Standards Authority

CMA

Competition and Markets Authority

COBS

Conduct of Business Sourcebook

CP

Consultation Paper

ESG

Environmental, Social and Governance

FCA

Financial Conduct Authority

GC

Guidance Consultation

PRIN

Principles for Businesses Sourcebook

PS

Policy Statement

SDR

Sustainability Disclosure Requirements

SLB

Sustainability-Linked Bonds

UK

United Kingdom

All our publications are available to download from www.fca.org.uk.
Request an alternative format

Please complete this form if you require this content in an alternative format.
Or call 020 7066 6087

Sign up for our news and publications alerts

21

Finalised guidance

22

Pub ref: 2-008245

© Financial Conduct Authority 2024
12 Endeavour Square London E20 1JN
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7066 1000
Website: www.fca.org.uk
All rights reserved

