SBTi CORPORATE
NEAR-TERM CRITERIA
Version 5.3
September 2025

ABOUT SBTi
The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) is a corporate climate action organization that
enables companies and financial institutions worldwide to play their part in combating the
climate crisis.
We develop standards, tools and guidance which allow companies to set greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions reductions targets in line with what is needed to keep global heating below
catastrophic levels and reach net-zero by 2050 at latest.
The SBTi is incorporated as a UK charity, with a subsidiary SBTi Services, which hosts our
target validation services (together with SBTi, the “SBTi Group”). Partner organizations who
facilitated SBTi’s growth and development are CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, the
We Mean Business Coalition, the World Resources Institute (WRI), and the World Wide
Fund for Nature (WWF).

​ ​

​

​

​

​

​

Science Based Targets Initiative is a registered charity in England and Wales (1205768) and a limited company registered in England and Wales (14960097). Registered
address: 66 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, England, WC2A 3LH. SBTI Services Limited is a limited company registered in England and Wales (15181058). Registered
address: 66 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, England, WC2A 3LH. SBTI Services Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Science Based Targets Initiative. © SBTi 2025

DISCLAIMER
Although reasonable care was taken in the preparation of this document, the Science Based
Targets initiative (SBTi) affirms that the document is provided without warranty, either
expressed or implied, of accuracy, completeness or fitness for purpose. The SBTi hereby
further disclaims any liability, direct or indirect, for damages or loss relating to the use of this
document to the fullest extent permitted by law.
The information (including data) contained in the document is not intended to constitute or
form the basis of any advice (financial or otherwise). The SBTi does not accept any liability
for any claim or loss arising from any use of or reliance on any data or information in the
document.
This document is protected by copyright. Information or material from this document may be
reproduced only in unaltered form for personal, non-commercial use. All other rights are
reserved. Information or material used from this document may be used only for the
purposes of private study, research, criticism, or review permitted under the Copyright
Designs & Patents Act 1988 as amended from time to time ('Copyright Act'). Any
reproduction permitted in accordance with the Copyright Act shall acknowledge this
document as the source of any selected passage, extract, diagram, content or other
information.
The SBTi reserves the right to revise this document according to a set revision schedule or
as advisable to reflect the most recent emissions scenarios, regulatory, legal or scientific
developments, and GHG accounting best practices.
“Science Based Targets initiative” and “SBTi” refer to the Science Based Targets initiative, a
private company registered in England number 14960097 and registered as a UK Charity
number 1205768.
© SBTi 2025

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

3

VERSION HISTORY
Version

Update description

Release date Effective dates

1.0 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

May 2015

May 2015 to
April 16, 2017

2.0 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version to reflect current best
practice and latest experience.

February 24,
2017

24 February,
2017 to 22
May, 2018

3.0 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version to provide greater clarity
and reflect current best practices.

23 May, 2018

23 May 2018 to
14 October
2019

Guidance for 3.0

Supplementary guidance and clarifications
to V3.0.

28 February
2019

23 May 2018 to
14 October
2019

4.0 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version to reflect current
developments of climate science and best
practices. This version integrates
clarifications to relevant criteria included in
Guidance for 3.0.

17 April 2019

15 October
2019 to 14 July
2020

4.1 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version to provide greater clarity
and reflect current best practices.

15 April 2020

15 July 2020 to
14 April 2021

4.2 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version that includes minor
wording changes to improve clarity in C4,
C16-18, C23, and R10. No changes or
updates to criteria content have been
made.
Additionally, the section on annual timeline
of updates was removed as it was out of
date, and sections 3 and 4 have been
added from other SBTi resources to
provide the information directly in this
criteria document.

15 April 2021

15 April 2021
to 14 July 2022

5.0 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations

Updated version that reflects current
developments in climate science and best
practices. This version integrates changes
in alignment with SBTi’s new strategy,
including the integration of the SBTi
Corporate Net-Zero Standard.

27 October
2021

15 July 2022 to
10 April 2023

5.1 SBTi Criteria
and
Recommendations
for Near-term
Targets

Non-substantive revision to provide further
clarification and context to existing criteria,
recommendations and use of terminology
(criterion 4, 5, 6, 10, 13,19, 26 and 27 and
recommendation 5 and 8). This version
also clarifies that allowable years for a
recent year inventory for submissions in
2023 must be no earlier than 2021

11 April 2023

11 April 2023 to
12 March 2024

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

4

(criterion 14), and that scope 3 physical
intensity targets (criterion 18) only need to
meet the 7% compounded emissions
intensity reduction (and can lead to
absolute emissions increase). In this
version criteria 22 and 23 are aligned to the
revised version of the SBTi’s policy on
fossil fuel companies, and the most up to
date information on sector developments
and sector-specific criteria are included.

5.2 SBTi Corporate
Near-term Criteria

Non-substantive revision to correspond
with the V1.2 update of the SBTi Corporate
Net-Zero Standard. For a detailed list of
revisions made in V5.2 of the SBTi
Corporate Near-term Criteria, please refer
to Table 1 of the Main Changes document
for V1.2 of the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero
Standard.

5.3 Corporate
Near-Term Criteria

Non-substantive revision to correspond
with the V1.3 update of the SBTi Corporate
Net-Zero Standard. Correction to bioenergy
accounting requirements (C10), clarification
of sold and/or distributed fossil fuels target
applicability (C22), clarification of near-term
target timeframe (C13 and C19) and
15 September
From 15
clarification on long-term target years for
2025
September 2025
companies in the power and maritime
sectors. Introduction of near-term target
year recommendation (R7) to support
alignment of near-term target years with the
mandatory transition period of the
forthcoming update to SBTi’s Corporate
Net-Zero Standard V2.0.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

13 March
2024

​

13 March 2024
to 14
September
2025

September 2025 |

5

CONTENTS
ABOUT SBTi........................................................................................................................... 2
DISCLAIMER........................................................................................................................... 3
CONTENTS............................................................................................................................. 6
INTRODUCTION......................................................................................................................7
Terminology........................................................................................................................ 7
Effective dates of updated criteria...................................................................................... 8
Near-term science-based targets and net-zero targets......................................................8
CRITERIA AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR NEAR-TERM TARGETS................................ 8
General criteria...................................................................................................................8
Target boundary........................................................................................................... 8
Organizational boundary........................................................................................ 8
GHG coverage........................................................................................................8
Scope coverage......................................................................................................9
Emissions coverage............................................................................................... 9
Method validity (near-term targets).............................................................................. 9
Emissions accounting requirements...........................................................................10
Timeframe...................................................................................................................11
Ambition..................................................................................................................... 12
Scope 1 and 2 (near-term targets)....................................................................... 12
Scope 3 (near-term targets)................................................................................. 12
Combined targets (near-term targets).................................................................. 13
Renewable electricity targets (near- and long-term targets).................................13
Sector-specific guidance.................................................................................................. 14
Fossil fuel sales, distribution, and other business...................................................... 14
Sector-specific guidance............................................................................................ 14
Reporting, recalculation and target validity...................................................................... 15
Reporting.................................................................................................................... 15
Recalculation and target validity.................................................................................15
SECTOR-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.................................................................................16

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

6

INTRODUCTION
This document includes all criteria that must be met for near-term target(s) to be validated by
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as well as recommendations which are important
for transparency and best practice. It is important to note that criteria and recommendations
are subject to change and may be updated.
Although this document contains all criteria for setting near-term science-based targets,
companies should refer to the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard V1.3 if they wish to set
science-based net-zero targets.
These criteria apply to companies not classified as financial institutions or small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Financial institutions must set targets using the Financial
Sector Science-based Targets Guidance. SMEs may use the SME validation route or the
regular validation route to set targets.
Companies must follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, Scope 2 Guidance, and
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
The SBTi Corporate Near-term Criteria V5.3 should be read in conjunction with the SBTi
Corporate Net-Zero Standard V1.3, which includes informative guidance on near-term and
net-zero targets, the Procedure for Validation of SBTi Targets, which describes the
underlying process followed to assess targets, the Criteria Assessment Indicators for
near-term targets that detail the indicators used to determine conformance and
non-conformance with criteria, and the SBTi Glossary, which lists the terms, definitions, and
acronyms used in this document.

Terminology
This document explains the near-term criteria, which are requirements that companies
must follow, and recommendations, which companies should follow, to align with the SBTi
Corporate Near-term Criteria. Unless otherwise stated (including specific sections), all
criteria apply to scopes 1, 2, and 3.
This document uses precise language to indicate requirements, recommendations, and
allowable options that companies may choose to follow.
●​ The terms “shall” or “must” are used throughout this document to indicate what is
required for targets to be in conformance with the criteria.
●​ The term “should” is used to indicate a recommendation, but not a requirement.
●​ The term “may” is used to indicate an option that is permissible or allowable.
The terms “required” or “must” are used in the guidance to refer to requirements. “Can” and
“is encouraged” may be used to provide recommendations on implementing a requirement
or “cannot” may be used to indicate when an action is not possible.
The letter “C” preceding a number indicates a criterion and the letter “R” preceding a
number indicates a recommendation.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

7

Effective dates of updated criteria
The SBTi Corporate Near-term Criteria version 5.3 will be in effect as of September 15,
2025. Revised criteria and recommendations are marked with an asterisk (*).

Near-term science-based targets and net-zero targets
Companies wishing to seek validation for near-term targets1 only may still do so, but the
SBTi encourages companies contemplating setting net-zero targets in the future to consider
the implications of the formulation of their near-term targets for long-term target setting.

CRITERIA AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
NEAR-TERM TARGETS
General criteria
Target boundary
Organizational boundary
C1 – Organizational boundary: Companies should submit targets only at the parent- or group
level, not the subsidiary level. Parent companies shall include the emissions of all
subsidiaries in their target submission, in accordance with the boundary criteria.2 In cases
where both parent companies and subsidiaries submit targets, the parent company’s target
must also include the emissions of the subsidiary if it falls within the parent company’s
emissions boundary given the chosen inventory consolidation approach.3, 4
R1 – Setting organizational boundaries: The SBTi strongly recommends that a company's
organizational boundary, as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, is consistent
with the organizational boundary used in the company’s financial accounting and reporting
procedures. Companies should use the same organizational boundary year-on-year. If a
company’s organizational boundary changes, they should refer to C27 of this standard.
GHG coverage
C2 – Greenhouse gasses: The targets shall cover all relevant emissions of the seven GHGs
as required by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.5

1

Near-term targets were previously termed short-term targets.

2

* As outlined in C2 to C6.

3

* Brands, licensees, and/or specific regions or business divisions of a company will not be accepted as separate
targets, unless they fall outside of a parent company’s chosen consolidation approach.
4
* Companies must integrate emissions from their structural changes into their GHG inventory within a
reasonable timeframe.
5
* The seven GHGs are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs),
perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

8

Scope coverage
C3 – Scope 1 and scope 2: The targets shall cover company-wide scope 1 and scope 2
emissions, as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.6
C4 – Scope 3: If a company’s relevant scope 3 emissions are 40% or more of total scope 1,
2, and 3 emissions, they shall be included in near-term science-based targets. All companies
involved in the sale or distribution of natural gas and/or other fossil fuels shall set separate
scope 3 targets for the use of sold products, irrespective of the share of these emissions
compared to the total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of the company.
Emissions coverage
C5 – Scope 1, 2 and 3 allowable exclusions: Companies shall not exclude more than 5% of
total combined scope 1 and scope 2 emissions from either the boundary of the GHG
inventory or the target boundary.7, 8 Companies shall not exclude more than 5% of emissions
from their total scope 3 GHG inventory.9 Scope 3 target boundary requirements are outlined
in C6.
C6 – Scope 3 emissions coverage for near-term targets: Companies shall set one or more
emission reduction near-term targets and/or supplier or customer engagement targets that
collectively cover(s) at least 67% of total reported and excluded scope 3 emissions
considering the minimum boundary of each scope 3 category in conformance with the GHG
Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.10
R2 – Targets covering optional scope 3 emissions: Targets to reduce scope 3 emissions that
fall outside the minimum boundary of scope 3 categories are not required but are
nevertheless encouraged when these emissions are significant. Companies may cover these
emissions with a scope 3 target, but such targets cannot count towards the threshold defined
in C6 for scope 3 emissions (i.e., these targets are in addition to the company’s required
scope 3 targets). For a definition of optional emissions for each scope 3 category, please
see Table 5.4 (page 34) of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting
and Reporting Standard.
Method validity (near-term targets)
C7 – Method validity: Targets must be modeled using the latest version of methods and tools
approved by the SBTi. Targets modeled using previous versions of the tools or methods can
6

* GHG accounting that is not proven to adhere to the GHG Protocol accounting standard and the SBTi criteria
assessment indicators will not be accepted by the SBTi.
7
* The total targeted scope 1 and 2 emissions shall be greater than or equal to 95% of total (reported +
excluded) scope 1 and 2 emissions. This means that a company shall not exclude 5% from the inventory
boundary and then also exclude a further 5% from the target boundary.
8
* Where a company’s scope 1 or 2 emissions are deemed immaterial (i.e., under 5% of total combined scope 1
and 2 emissions), companies may set their science-based target solely on the scope (either scope 1 or scope 2)
that covers more than 95% of the total scope 1 and 2 emissions. The company shall continue to report on both
scopes and adjust their targets as needed, according to the GHG Protocol’s principle of completeness, and as
per C26 and C27.
9
* The SBTi does not recognize emissions perceived to be “negligible” as a rationale for not reporting them. Even
if emissions from certain activities or operations are perceived to be negligible, these emissions still must be
quantified and reported in the reporting company’s GHG inventory or disclosed as an exclusion.
10
* GHG accounting that is not proven to adhere to the GHG Protocol minimum boundaries and the SBTi criteria
assessment indicators will not be accepted by the SBTi.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

9

only be submitted to the SBTi for validation within 6 months of the publication of the revised
method or sector-specific tools.
Emissions accounting requirements
C8 – Scope 2 accounting approach: Companies shall disclose whether they are using a
location- or market-based accounting approach as per the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance
to calculate base year emissions and to track performance against a science-based target.
The GHG Protocol requires measuring and reporting scope 2 emissions using both
approaches. However, a single and consistent approach must be used for setting and
tracking progress toward a science-based target(e.g., using location-based approach for
both target setting and progress tracking).
C9 – Scope 3 inventory: Companies shall complete a scope 3 inventory covering gross
scope 3 emissions for all its relevant emissions sources according to the GHG Protocol
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.11, 12
*C10 – Biogenic accounting: Companies that use bioenergy or have biogenic emissions
within their operations or value chain shall:
●​ Report CO2 emissions and removals in line with GHG Protocol guidance.
●​ Include net13 CO₂ emissions from biogenic sources in the target boundary for scopes
1, 2 and 314, and track these net emissions when reporting progress against
science-based targets.
●​ Include the required footnote in target language15: “The target boundary includes
land-related emissions and removals from biogenic feedstocks.”
●​ Report all upstream CO₂e emissions from bioenergy and biogenic feedstocks in the
main GHG inventory. Upstream emissions must include:
○​ CO₂e from direct land use change16 (LUC)
○​ Non-LUC emissions, including N₂O and CH₄ from land management
○​ CO₂e from processing and distribution

11

* To determine relevance of scope 3 activities for inclusion in the target boundary, companies will be assessed
against minimum boundary in Table 5.4 and using the criteria in Table 6.1 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Please note that, although beyond the minimum boundary,
all transport-related emissions across all sectors must be reported on a well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in companies’
GHG inventories (well-to-wake for aviation and maritime transport). All use-phase emissions from third-party
distributed fossil fuels must be reported in scope 3 category 11 for all companies engaged in this type of
distribution activity.
12
* Companies may use the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) Global GHG Accounting and
Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry to calculate financed emissions. However, emissions beyond the
minimum requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Scope 3 Category 15 Investments as per Table 5.9
(page 52) of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard shall not
count towards the mandatory boundary for scope 3 targets (see C6 and C7). Companies may, however, set
optional targets on these emissions (see R2).
13
Negative emissions due to biogenic removals shall not be accounted for in a company’s target formulation or
as progress towards SBTs. In addition, removals that are not directly associated with biogenic feedstock
production are not accepted to count as progress towards SBTs or to net emissions in a company’s GHG
inventory.
14
Biogenic scope 3 emissions must only be included if the net scope 3 coverage is below the minimum threshold.
15
Companies intending to use bioenergy or other biogenic emissions sources during the target timeframe must
also include the required footnote in their target language.
16
Reporting emissions from indirect LUC is optional.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

10

●​ Follow any future GHG Protocol guidance on bioenergy accounting once released to
maintain alignment with C11.
C11 – Carbon credits: The use of carbon credits must not be counted as emission reductions
toward the progress of companies’ near-term science-based targets. Carbon credits may
only be considered to be an option for neutralizing residual emissions (see the SBTi
Corporate Net-Zero Standard Criteria C28) or to finance additional climate mitigation beyond
their science-based emission reduction targets (see the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard
Criteria R9).
C12 – Avoided emissions: Avoided emissions fall under a separate accounting system from
corporate inventories and do not count toward near-term science-based emission reduction
targets.
R3 – Biofuel certification: The SBTi recommends that companies using or producing
biofuel(s) for transport should support their bioenergy GHG accounting with recognized
biofuels certification(s) to disclose that the data on land-related emissions and removals
represents the relevant biofuel feedstock production.
R4 – Bioenergy data reporting: The SBTi recommends that companies report direct biogenic
CO2 emissions and removals from bioenergy separately. Emissions and removals of CO2
associated with bioenergy shall be reported as net emissions according to C10, at a
minimum. However, companies are encouraged to report gross emissions and gross
removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
Timeframe
*C13 – Base and target years: Absolute and intensity-based emission reduction near-term
targets must cover a minimum of 5 years and a maximum of 10 years from the date the
target is submitted to the SBTi for validation. The choice of base year must be no earlier than
2015. Scope 1 and scope 2 targets must use the same base year.17 The SBTi does not
accept multi-year average base years, unless this is specified in the sector-guidance
relevant to the company.
C14 – Progress to date: The minimum forward-looking ambition of near-term targets
covering scope 1 and/or scope 2 emissions is consistent with reaching net-zero by 2050 at
the latest, assuming a linear absolute reduction, linear intensity reduction, or intensity
convergence between the most recent year and 2050 (not increasing absolute emissions or
intensity).18, 19

17

* Scope 3 targets are recommended but not required to use the same base year as scope 1 and scope 2
targets. Base years across different scope 3 targets must be the same.
18
* The most recent year used for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions shall be the same year. The most recent year
used for scope 3 emissions is recommended to be the same year as scope 1 and scope 2.
19
* Companies shall provide all the relevant GHG inventory data including a most recent year GHG inventory. For
submissions in 2025, the most recent inventory shall be no earlier than 2023 i.e. allowable most recent years are
2023 and 2024. Companies should also note that using proxy data (i.e., applying one reporting year's data to
another reporting year) is not permitted. For example, a company may not apply base year emissions to the most
recent year.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

11

R5 – Long-term targets: Targets that cover more than 10 years from the date of submission
are considered long-term targets. Long-term targets can only be validated in accordance
with the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard Criteria.
R6 – Consistency: It is recommended that companies use the same base years for all
near-term targets.
*R7 – 2030 target year: It is recommended that companies select a 2030 target year for all
near-term targets. Applying this recommendation exempts a company from the 5-10 year
timeframe requirement in C13.
Ambition
Scope 1 and 2 (near-term targets)
C15 – Level of ambition for scope 1 and 2 targets: At a minimum, scope 1 and scope 2
near-term targets shall be consistent with the level of decarbonization required to keep
global temperature increase to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures.20
C16 – Absolute targets: Absolute reduction targets for scope 1 and scope 2 are eligible
when they are at least as ambitious as the minimum of the approved range of emissions
scenarios consistent with the 1.5°C goal.
C17 – Intensity targets: Intensity targets for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are only eligible
when they are modeled using an approved 1.5°C sector pathway applicable to companies’
business activities.
R8 – Choosing an approach: The SBTi recommends using the most ambitious
decarbonization scenarios that lead to the earliest reductions and the least cumulative
emissions.
Scope 3 (near-term targets)
C18 – Level of ambition for scope 3 emissions reductions targets: At a minimum, near-term
scope 3 targets (covering total required scope 3 emissions or individual scope 3 categories)
shall be aligned with methods consistent with the level of decarbonization required to keep
global temperature increase well-below 2°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures.21
*C19 – Supplier or customer engagement targets: Near-term targets to drive the adoption of
science-based emission reduction targets by their corporate suppliers and/or customers
shall meet the following requirements:
20

* When a company uses fiscal years in its GHG accounting, the SBTi assesses minimum ambition based on
the calendar year (CY) where the majority of the months occur. E.g. FY2022 with a date range of April 2021 March 2022 it would be assessed as CY2021. In the case where a FY is evenly split across a CY (i.e., a FY ends
on June, 30), ambition is assessed using the later year in the date range. This approach is applicable to all
targets.
21
* When a company uses fiscal years in its GHG accounting, the SBTi assesses minimum ambition based on
the calendar year (CY) where the majority of the months occur. E.g. FY2022 with a date range of April 2021 March 2022 it would be assessed as CY2021. In the case where a FY is evenly split across a CY (i.e., a FY ends
on June, 30), ambition is assessed using the later year in the date range. This approach is applicable to all
targets.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

12

●​ Boundary: Companies may set engagement targets across upstream or
downstream scope 3 categories.
●​ Formulation: Companies shall provide information in the target language on what
percentage of emissions from relevant upstream and/or downstream categories is
covered by the engagement target or, if that information is not available, what
percentage of annual procurement spend is covered by the target.22
●​ Timeframe: Engagement targets shall be fulfilled within a maximum of 5 years from
the date the company’s target is submitted to the SBTi for a validation.
●​ Ambition level: The company’s suppliers/customers shall have science-based
emission reduction targets in line with the latest version of the SBTi Corporate
Near-Term Criteria.
*R9 – Supplier engagement: Companies should recommend that their suppliers use the
SBTi guidance and tools available to set science-based targets. SBTi validation of supplier
science-based targets is recommended but not required. Additionally, it is recommended to
use 2030 or earlier as the supplier engagement target year.
Combined targets (near-term targets)
C20 – Combined scope targets: Targets that combine scopes (e.g., 1+2 or 1+2+3) are
permitted if the SBTi can review the ambition of the individual target components and
confirm each meets the relevant ambition criteria.23
Renewable electricity targets (near- and long-term targets)
C21 – Renewable electricity (scope 2 only): Targets to actively source renewable electricity
at a rate consistent with 1.5°C scenarios are an acceptable alternative to scope 2 emission
reduction targets over emissions from the generation of procured electricity.24 The SBTi has
identified 80% renewable electricity procurement by 2025 and 100% by 2030 as thresholds
(portion of renewable electricity over total electricity use) for this approach, in line with the
recommendations of RE100.25 Companies that already source electricity at or above these
thresholds shall maintain or increase their use of renewable electricity to qualify. For
long-term targets, companies shall maintain 100% renewable electricity procurement beyond
2030.
*R10 – Purchased heat and steam: When modeling targets using the Sectoral
Decarbonization Approach (SDA), companies should model purchased heat and steam
related emissions as if they were part of their direct emissions, i.e., scope 1.

22

If measuring coverage by spend, the company shall provide an estimate of the emissions coverage associated
with that spend for validation purposes to demonstrate that criterion C6 has been met, by the supplier or
customer target alone or together with other scope 3 target(s).
23
* When submitting combined near-term targets, the scope 1+2 portion must be in line with at least a 1.5°C
scenario and the scope 3 portion of the target must be in line with at least a well-below 2°C scenario. For sectors
where minimum target ambition is further specified for companies’ scope 3 activities, C24 supersedes C20.
24
* Companies reporting scope 2 emissions using location-based methods can still set a renewable electricity
target provided they have the capacity to demonstrate active sourcing of renewable electricity through market
instruments.
25
RE100 guidance states that setting a 100% renewable electricity target by 2030 at the latest shows a strong
level of leadership.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

13

R11 – Efficiency considerations for target modeling: If companies are using a method that
does not already embed efficiency gains for the specific sector, market – and the
decarbonization projected for the power sector is based on a 1.5°C scenario – these factors
should be considered when modeling electricity-related scope 2 targets.

Sector-specific guidance
Fossil fuel sales, distribution, and other business
*C22 – Sale, transmission, distribution of oil, natural gas, coal as well as other fossil fuels:
Companies that sell, transmit, or distribute natural gas (or other fossil fuel products) shall set
separate emission reduction targets for scope 3 category 11 “use of sold products” covering emissions from the combustion of the sold, transmitted, or distributed fossil fuels that are at a minimum consistent with the level of decarbonization required to keep global
temperature increase to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures, irrespective of the
share of these emissions compared to the total scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions of the
company26, company's sector classification, or whether fossil fuel sale/distribution is the
company's primary business. In order to meet the 67% near-term scope 3 coverage,
companies may need to set additional targets covering other scope 3 categories. Customer
engagement targets are not eligible for this criterion.
C23 – Companies in the fossil fuel production business or with significant revenue from fossil
fuel business lines: The SBTi will not currently validate targets for:
●​ Companies with any level of direct involvement in exploration, extraction, mining
and/or production of oil, natural gas, coal or other fossil fuels, irrespective of
percentage revenue generated by these activities.
●​ Companies that derive 50% or more of their revenue from the sale, transmission and
distribution of fossil fuels, or by providing equipment or services to fossil fuel
companies.
●​ Companies with more than 5% revenue from fossil fuel assets (e.g., coal mine, lignite
mine, etc.) for extraction activities with commercial purposes.
These companies must follow the applicable sector standards if available.
Sector-specific guidance
C24 — Requirements from sector-specific guidance: Companies must follow requirements
for target setting and minimum ambition levels as indicated in relevant sector-specific
methods and guidance – at the latest, 6 months after the sector guidance publication. A list
of the sector-specific guidance and requirements is available below (Table 4 of the Corporate
Net-Zero Standard).27
26

Sales of low-volume fossil fuel products intended for occasional personal use, such as lighters and single-use
camping stove canisters, are exempt from this requirement. Furthermore, this requirement does not apply if
emissions in scope 3 category 11 from the combustion of the sold, transmitted, or distributed fossil fuels
constitute less than 1% of the company’s total scope 3 inventory and are less than 100,000 tCO2e.
27
* The Corporate Net-Zero Standard and the Near-Term Criteria should be complemented with SBTi
sector-specific guidance whenever the sector and/or activity covered by the sector guidance is relevant to the
company seeking SBTi validation, e.g. a company with aviation, maritime, and financial services activities is
encouraged to set separate sector-specific targets for each of the activities relevant to them based on SBTi

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

14

Reporting, recalculation and target validity
Reporting
C25 – Frequency: The company shall publicly report its company-wide GHG emissions
inventory and progress against published targets on an annual basis.
R12 – Where to disclose: There are no specific requirements regarding where the inventory
and progress against published targets should be disclosed, as long as it is publicly
available. The SBTi recommends disclosure through standardized, comparable data
platforms such as CDP’s climate change annual questionnaire. Annual reports, sustainability
reports and the company’s website are also acceptable platforms.
Recalculation and target validity
C26 – Mandatory target review: Companies shall review all active targets, at a minimum,
every 5 years to ensure consistency with the latest SBTi criteria.28 If targets do not meet SBTi
criteria, then they shall be updated and revalidated. Companies with targets approved in
2020 or earlier shall review all active targets by 2025. Companies shall follow the most
recent applicable criteria at the time of resubmission.
C27 – Triggered target recalculation: Targets shall be recalculated and revalidated when
significant changes occur that could compromise the existing target. The following changes
shall trigger a target recalculation:
●​ Scope 3 emissions become 40% or more of aggregated scope 1, 2 and 3
emissions.
●​ Changes in the consolidation approach chosen for the GHG inventory.
●​ Emissions of exclusions in the inventory or target boundary change significantly.
●​ Significant changes in company structure and activities (e.g., acquisition,
divestiture, merger, insourcing or outsourcing, shifts in goods or service offerings).29
●​ Adjustments to data sources or calculation methodologies resulting in significant
changes to an organization’s total base year emissions or the target boundary base
year emissions (e.g., discovery of significant errors or a number of cumulative errors
that are collectively significant).
●​ Other significant changes to projections/assumptions used in setting the
science-based targets.30
sector guidance. Please note that the target boundary coverage is to be met at the company wide-level, not at
target level, unless otherwise stated.
28
* Please note that the beginning of the review period for all active targets corresponds to the date of initial
validation of the oldest currently active target or the most recent target validation date of each target where all the
company targets were updated.
29
* For example, a target recalculation may be triggered if a shift of goods and service offerings results in a shift
of emissions between scopes of already validated targets (e.g., if a company has a scope 1+2 target separate
from a scope 3 target, and emissions that were first in scope 3 are shifted to scope 1 or scope 2 because of a
change in the company's offering). A target recalculation may also be triggered if a company's current targets use
a metric that becomes irrelevant after a shift in goods or service offerings (e.g., if a car manufacturer stopped
selling passenger cars and pivoted to freight trucks, their use of sold products target would no longer be
appropriate to model with the sold vehicle pathway and “passenger-kilometers” would no longer be an
appropriate metric).
30
* For example, for intensity targets, changes in growth projections.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

15

Companies shall apply a significance threshold of 5% or less. For base year emissions, a
change of 5% in an organization's total base year emissions would trigger a base year
emissions recalculation. A change of 5% or more in the base year emissions covered within
a target boundary would trigger a target recalculation.31
If a significant change occurs and the company’s target(s) no longer meet SBTi criteria, then
only the affected target(s) shall be recalculated and revalidated. Companies shall follow the
most recent applicable criteria at the time of resubmission.
C28 – Target validity: Companies with approved targets must announce their target publicly
on the SBTi website within 6 months of the approval date. Targets unannounced after 6
months must go through the approval process again unless a different publication time frame
has been agreed in writing with the SBTi.
R13 – Validity of target projections: The SBTi recommends that companies check the validity
of target-related projections on an annual basis. The company should notify the SBTi of any
significant changes and report these major changes publicly, as relevant.

SECTOR-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
Sector-specific guidance and methods are currently available for many sectors. All new,
sector-specific guidance that becomes available will be uploaded to the sector guidance
page on the SBTi website. The SBTi has sector-specific requirements related to the use of
target-setting methodologies and minimum ambition levels (please see table below32).33
*Table 4. Eligible pathways, methods, and tools for all sectors and activities
Sector/activity

Eligible pathways, methods, tools

Guidance and further notes

Companies not
covered by any
SBTi sector
guidance

●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool.

Please note that companies in certain
sectors (e.g., oil & gas) cannot
currently set targets with the SBTi.

Aluminum

●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool.

Apparel

Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate

Optional guidance is available for
companies in the apparel and footwear
sector.

31

* Please note that the significance threshold for target recalculation is relative to the scopes covered by the
target. For example, if a company has a validated scope 1+2 target and their scope 1+2 base year emissions
change by 5% or more, this triggers a target recalculation. Similarly, if a company has a validated scope 1+2+3
target and their scope 1+2+3 base year emissions change by 5% or more, this triggers a target recalculation.
32
This table can also be found in the Corporate Net-Zero Standard V1.3 (Table 4).
33
Please note that in case of inconsistencies between Table 4 and sector-specific guidance, the latest published
information applies.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

16

Net-Zero Tool.
Air transport

Options:
●​ Aviation pathway with intensity
convergence method (i.e., SDA) for
near-, and long-term targets on
well-to-wake (WTW) emissions,
recommended for all companies
providing air transport services. See
the Aviation tool.
●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets on WTW. See
Corporate Near-term Tool and
Corporate Net-Zero Tool.
Please note that whichever pathway is
chosen, the target boundary must
cover WTW, as specified in the SBTi
Aviation Guidance.

Buildings

Companies that own, develop and
manage buildings and meet the
emissions-based thresholds outlined in
the Buildings Criteria are Companies
that are within the scope of the SBTi
Buildings Criteria are required to

●​ Use the sector-specific
intensity convergence method
(i.e., SDA) for in-use
operational emissions using
the new SBTi-CRREM (Carbon
Risk Real Estate Monitor)
pathways if at least 20% of
their GHG inventory (scopes 1,
2, and 3) are emissions from
buildings’ operations.
●​ Use the SBTi cross-sector
methods, or the intensity
convergence method (i.e.,
SDA) or the sector-specific
absolute reduction method to
model upfront embodied
emissions targets, if at least
20% of their GHG inventory
(scopes 1, 2, and 3) are
emissions from buildings’
operations

For all transport-related emissions
across all sectors, companies shall set
targets over these emissions on a
well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in their
GHG inventory (well-to-wake for
aviation and maritime transport).
Aviation target formulation and
communication must explicitly state
that targets are exclusive of non-CO₂
factors. Targets must include a footnote
stating that non-CO₂ factors which may
also contribute to aviation-induced
warming are not included in this target
and whether the company has publicly
reported or commits to publicly report
its non-CO2 impacts.
All companies using the Aviation tool
must not choose 2020, 2021 or 2022
as the base year. The years 2020-2022
are anomalous for the industry due to
the COVID-19 pandemic.
Real estate investment trusts (REITs)
wishing to set targets must specify if
they are a mortgage-based or
equity-based REIT. Equity REITs must
pursue the regular target validation
route for companies. Mortgage REITs
must instead utilize the Financial
Institutions guidance for setting
science-based targets.
The sector-specific Buildings resources
include:
●​ Criteria and explanatory guidance
for GHG accounting and
target-setting for both in-use
operational and upfront embodied
emissions.
●​ Standalone buildings target-setting
tool for target-setting with
sector-specific methods using
granular sectoral pathways for
in-use operational emissions and
upfront embodied emissions.

See the SBTi Buildings Target-Setting
Tool for sector-specific methods.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

17

Cement

Options:
●​ Sector-specific intensity
convergence method (i.e., SDA) for
near-, and long-term targets. See
Corporate Near-term Tool and
Corporate Net-Zero Tool.
●​ Sector-specific absolute reduction
method for long-term targets. See
Corporate Net-Zero Tool.
●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool.

The SBTi has released guidance to aid
companies in the cement industry in
setting science-based targets.
Regardless of the pathway chosen,
near-term science-based targets for
cement activities shall include a scope
3 target which includes the emissions
from purchased cement and clinker
(under scope 3 category 1 “purchased
goods and services”), irrespective of
the share of these emissions compared
to the total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
of the company.

Chemicals

See “all other sectors”.

The SBTi is developing guidance for
companies in the chemicals sector.

Financial
institutions

Financial Institutions Near-Term
Criteria enable financial institutions to
set science-based targets on their
financed emissions in the near
term—covering a 5-10 year timeframe:

The SBTi Financial Institutions
Near-Term Criteria is required for
entities that generate 5% or more of its
revenue from investment and lending
activities. This includes but is not
limited to banks, asset managers and
private equity firms, asset owners and
insurance companies, and mortgage
real estate investment trusts (REITs).
Real economy companies that have
more than 5% of revenue from financial
activities are encouraged to use SBTi
to set targets on those activities in
addition to their corporate targets.
Currently, public financial institutions
are not covered within the SBTi
framework.

●​ Absolute reduction method or
sector-specific intensity
convergence (i.e., SDA) for
near-term targets on scope 1 and 2
emissions. See Corporate
Near-term Tool.
For near-term targets on scope 3
category 15 activities:
●​ Sector-specific intensity
convergence method (i.e., SDA).
See Corporate Near-term Tool and
other sector-specific tools. Based
on this method, only financing
within the same sector is
aggregated to produce a
portfolio-level intensity.
●​ Portfolio Coverage method. See
SBTi Finance Portfolio Coverage
tool. Based on this method,
financial institutions increase the
percentage of portfolio companies
that have SBTi-validated
science-based targets until all
portfolio companies have validated
science-based targets by 2040.
●​ Temperature Rating method. See
SBTi Finance Temperature Scoring
tool. Based on this method,
financial institutions commit to
improve portfolio temperature
alignment scores, so that the
portfolio’s scope 1 and 2
temperature score is 1.5ºC and

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

The SBTi Financial Institutions
Net-Zero Standard is designed for
institutions of all sizes and geographies
that generate 5% or more of their
revenue from any of the following five
financial activities: lending, asset
owner investing, asset manager
investing, insurance underwriting and
capital market activities. The Standard
is intended for all
commercially-operated, private, and
public financial institutions, including
public pension funds and sovereign
wealth funds. Other businesses that
generate less than 5% of their revenue
from financial activities are
encouraged, but not required, to use
the Standard when setting
science-based targets.
The Financial Institutions Net-Zero

​

​

September 2025 |

18

1.75ºC for scope 1, 2 and 3 by
2040.
●​ The Fossil Fuel Finance method
requires the disclosure, halt,
transition, and phaseout of fossil
fuel-related activities.
The SBTi Financial Institutions
Net-Zero Standard allows the use of
the following target-setting methods, all
of which can be calculated using the
SBTi Financial Institutions Net-Zero
Target-Setting Tool:
●​ Portfolio climate-alignment targets
require financial institutions to
increase the share of
climate-aligned financial activities
across their portfolio. This method
is available to cover financial
activities when setting both
near-term and long-term portfolio
targets.
Optional sectoral target-setting
methods for near-term portfolio targets:
●​ Phaseout targets require a 100%
reduction in absolute emissions
from the coal sector by the phase
out year.
●​ Absolute Contraction: requires a %
reduction of absolute emissions
from the oil and gas sector in line
with the referenced sector pathway.
●​ Portfolio Intensity Convergence:
requires the portfolio intensity to
converge to the referenced sector
pathway.
●​ Portfolio Index Alignment: indicates
the minimum % share of
zero-emissions electricity
generation capacity or the % share
of zero-emission vehicles produced
relative to all electricity generation
capacity or vehicles that are
attributed to financial activities, in
line with the respective sectoral
pathway in the reference year.

Standard presents several innovations
compared to the existing Financial
Institutions Near-Term Criteria,
including: a more comprehensive set of
asset classes and financial activities
(i.e., insurance underwriting and capital
market activities); extended use of
more actionable metrics and targets (in
addition to emission reduction targets);
and policies to align the most emission
intensive activities, such as financing
for fossil fuel activities and
deforestation.
The Financial Institutions Net-Zero
Standard complements the SBTi
Corporate Net-Zero Standard: together,
they cover all emissions scopes and
categories. The Financial Institutions
Net-Zero Standard is used for setting
targets on financial activities (scope 3,
category 15 emissions), while the
Corporate Net-Zero Standard covers
scopes 1, 2, and 3 categories 1-14
emissions.
Please see the Finance sector
guidance for further details.

More details about these methods are
available in the Financial Institutions
Net-Zero Target-Setting Methods and
Tool Documentation and Table 4.3 in
the Financial Institutions Net-Zero
Standard lists the accepted metrics
and the reference pathways for each of
the above methods.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

19

Companies with significant FLAG
emissions are required to set FLAG
targets (see criteria in the column to
the right). FLAG targets are
complementary and separate from
science-based targets that cover
energy/industry (non-FLAG) emissions.
Options:

Forest, land
and agriculture
(FLAG)

●​ Sector-specific absolute reduction
method for near-term targets. See
FLAG tool.
●​ Sector-specific absolute reduction
method for long-term targets
covering agriculture only. See
Corporate Net-Zero Tool.
●​ Commodity pathways for near-term
intensity targets. See FLAG tool.
Commodity pathways are available
for 10 agricultural commodities:
beef, chicken, dairy, leather, maize,
palm oil, pork, rice, soy, wheat.
Companies with emissions
associated with one or more of the
available agricultural commodity
pathways that account for 10% or
more of a company's total (gross)
FLAG emissions for each of those
commodities may use the
commodity pathway for that
commodity (but are not required to
do so).
Companies in the forest products
sector or with emissions related to
timber & wood fiber accounting for
10% or more of their FLAG emissions
are required to use the commodity
pathway for timber and wood fiber.

Fossil fuel sale/
transmission/
distribution

Information and
communication
technology
(ICT) providers

The following companies are required
to set FLAG targets:
1.​ Companies with FLAG emissions
that total 20% or more of overall
emissions across scopes; and
2.​ Companies in the following sectors:
●​ Forest and Paper Products Forestry, Timber, Pulp and
Paper, Rubber
●​ Food Production - Agricultural
Production
●​ Food Production - Animal
Source
●​ Food and Beverage Processing
●​ Food and Staples Retailing
●​ Tobacco
Please note that FLAG near-term
targets must cover at least 95% of
FLAG-related scope 1 and 2 emissions
and at least 67% of FLAG-related
scope 3 emissions.
Please see the FLAG Guidance for
further details.
Please note that there is currently no
long-term pathway available for timber
and wood fiber. Targets from
companies operating in the forest and
paper products sector shall include a
footnote stating that timber and wood
fiber emissions are not included in the
long-term target. These companies
must (re)submit their long-term FLAG
target covering these emissions within
six months of the release of the
long-term pathway for timber and wood
fiber.

Companies that sell, transmit, and/or
distribute fossil fuels (and that derive
less than 50% of revenue from these
activities) are required to set targets
for scope 3 category 11 “use of sold
products” emissions, irrespective of the
share of these emissions compared to
the total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of
the company. Separate and additional
scope 3 targets may need to be set.

This requirement is applicable to
companies that derive less than 50% of
revenue from the sale, transmission
and distribution of fossil fuels.

●​ Cross-sector absolute reduction
method for near-, and long-term
targets. See Corporate Near-term
Tool and Corporate Net-Zero Tool.

Optional guidance is available for ICT
companies including mobile networks
operators, fixed networks operators,
and data centers operators.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

For companies receiving 50% or more
of their revenue from these activities,
please refer to the Oil and Gas section.

​

​

September 2025 |

20

Iron and steel

Options:
●​ Sector-specific intensity
convergence method (i.e., SDA) for
near-, and long-term targets. See
Steel SDA tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool respectively.
●​ Sector-specific absolute reduction
method for long-term targets. See
Corporate Net-Zero Tool.
●​ Cross-sector absolute reduction
method for near-, and long-term
targets. See Corporate Near-term
Tool and Corporate Net-Zero Tool.

The SBTi has released guidance to aid
companies in the steel industry in
setting science-based targets.
Near-term iron and steelmakers
science-based targets shall include a
scope 3 target that covers all scope 3
category 3 “Fuel- and energy-related
emissions not included in scope 1 or
scope 2” emissions according to the
GHG Protocol.

Please note that regardless of the
pathway chosen, the iron & steel core
boundary must be applied to all
near-term targets.
Maritime
Transport

Options:
●​ Maritime pathway with intensity
convergence method (i.e., SDA) for
near-, and long-term targets on
well-to-wake (WTW) is available for
all companies providing applicable
maritime transport services. See
Maritime Tool. When using the
maritime pathway, near-term targets
can be no earlier than 2030 and
long-term targets must be no later
than 2040.
●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets on WTW. See
Corporate Near-term Tool and
Corporate Net-Zero Tool. When
using the cross-sector pathway,
near-term targets must follow the
5-10 year timeframe, and long-term
targets must be no later than 2050.

Companies using the maritime
pathway to set near-term targets
science-based targets covering
emissions from own operations (e.g.,
vessel owners or operators) are
required to also submit long-term
science-based targets modeled with
the maritime pathway along with their
near-term target submission. Please
note that in this case, the long-term
target year for maritime targets is 2040.
Companies using the maritime
guidance to set near-term
science-based targets covering scope
3 emissions from subcontracted
maritime transport operations (e.g.,
cargo owners or shippers) are not
required to submit long-term
science-based targets.
For all transport-related emissions
across all sectors, companies shall set
targets over these emissions on a
well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in their
GHG inventory (well-to-wake for
aviation and maritime transport).
Please see the transport sector page
for the Maritime Transport
Guidance and the Maritime Transport
Target Setting Tool.

Oil & gas

The SBTi is developing a new standard
for companies in the oil and gas sector
to set science-based targets. Currently,
the SBTi is unable to accept
commitments or validate targets for
companies in the oil and gas or fossil
fuels sectors.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

Companies in this sector include – but
are not limited to - integrated oil and
gas companies, integrated gas
companies, exploration and production
pure players, refining and marketing
pure players, oil products distributors,
and traditional oil and gas service
companies. Please see the Oil and

​

​

September 2025 |

21

Companies that have dormant or active
fossil fuel assets (e.g., coal mine,
lignite mine, etc.) for extraction
activities with commercial purposes
(meaning sales), cannot validate
targets at this stage, until further
specific methods and guidance are
developed.
Please see our policy for further
information.
The SBTi will assess companies on a
case-by-case basis to determine sector
classification and reserves the right to
not move forward with a company’s
validation, until methods/guidance
have been developed/completed.

Electric Utilities
& power
generation

Companies in the power sector are
required to set targets using the
power sector pathway for near-, and
long-term targets (intensity
convergence method only (i.e., SDA)
within the Corporate Near-term Tool
and Corporate Net-Zero Tool).

Gas sector page on our website for
more information.
Fossil fuel service companies need to
account for the indirect emissions
related to the fossil fuels directly or
indirectly managed by the company.
The SBTi defines fossil fuel service
companies as businesses that support
exploration, extraction, mining or
production of fossil fuels, and other
significant activities along the fossil
fuels value chain, not covered by sale,
transportation or distribution category.
The SBTi recommends companies to
decommission fossil fuel assets,
instead of divesting, as this approach
better reflects the need to phase-out
fossil fuels in our global economy, as
science indicates is necessary. If a
company completely
decommissions/divests from fossil fuel
assets, they will no longer be
considered under these rules, and can
submit targets as per standard route.
The SBTi recommends companies to
follow the GHG Protocol for base year
recalculations.
Companies in the power sector with
scope 3 emissions representing 40%
or more of overall emissions must set
at least two targets:
●​ An intensity target covering all sold
electricity (including purchased and
resold electricity in scope 3
category 3 “fuel- and energy-related
emissions not included in scope 1
or scope 2” emissions)
●​ An intensity target covering all
electricity generation in scope 1
expressed in terms of MWh
(megawatt hour) energy generated.

Please note that the long-term power
target(s) shall be no later than 2040.

For power generation companies that
distribute and sell fossil fuels, a third
target shall be set covering 100% of
emissions from downstream use of
fossil fuels. This should be an absolute
target that aligns with a 1.5°C
mitigation pathway. In order to meet
the 67% scope 3 coverage threshold,
power companies may need to set a
target over other scope 3 categories as
well.
Please see the Electric utilities/Power
Guidance for further details.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

​

​

September 2025 |

22

Land
Transport:
Road and rail

Options:

Land
Transport:
Transport
OEMs/Automa
kers

●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets over use of sold
products emissions. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool. This is applicable
once the interim 1.5ºC target setting
approach for automakers is
published.

●​ Cross-sector pathway with absolute
reduction method for near-, and
long-term targets. See Corporate
Near-term Tool and Corporate
Net-Zero Tool.
●​ Companies that subcontract
transport services can use the
cross-sector pathway or use the
legacy Transport Tool with the
WB2C (well-below 2°C) pathway.
No 1.5ºC sector intensity pathway is
currently available.

SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3 ​

​

​

​

For all transport-related emissions
across all sectors, companies shall set
targets over these emissions on a
well-to-wheel (WTW) basis in their
GHG inventory (well-to-wake for
aviation and maritime transport).

The SBTi will review and update the
passenger, freight and OEM (original
equipment manufacturer) sector
target-setting guidance through a
formal sector development process.
The SBTi Interim 1.5°C Approach for
Automakers will be reviewed and
superseded upon the completion of this
sector guidance update process. Until
the Interim 1.5°C target setting
pathway for automakers is published,
near- and long-term target validations
and target updates for automakers are
paused - as outlined in this policy.

​

​

September 2025 |

23

