CONSOLIDATED SET OF GRI
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING STANDARDS
2016

1

Introduction

This document contains the set of 36 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the
GRI Standards Glossary published in 2016. The full content of each Standard has been
incorporated, including the original formatting and page numbering.
Users can navigate to specific Standards using the table of Contents.
Note that this document includes numerous internal links. After clicking on a link,
use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to the previous view.

Contents
Universal Standards
GRI 101: Foundation 2016
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

2

Consolidated Set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards

PDF page number
004
033
077

Topic-specific Standards
GRI 200: Economic
201: Economic Performance
202: Market Presence
203: Indirect Economic Impacts
204: Procurement Practices
205: Anti-corruption
206: Anti-competitive Behavior

090
104
114
122
130
141

GRI 300: Environmental
301: Materials
302: Energy
303: Water
304: Biodiversity
305: Emissions
306: Effluents and Waste
307: Environmental Compliance
308: Supplier Environmental Assessment

149
158
172
182
194
214
227
234

GRI 400: Social
401: Employment
402: Labor/Management Relations
403: Occupational Health and Safety
404: Training and Education
405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
406: Non-discrimination
407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
408: Child Labor
409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
410: Security Practices
411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples
412: Human Rights Assessment
413: Local Communities
414: Supplier Social Assessment
415: Public Policy
416: Customer Health Safety
417: Marketing and Labeling
418: Customer Privacy
419: Socioeconomic Compliance

244
255
263
276
287
296
304
312
321
329
337
346
358
370
380
388
398
408
416

GRI Standards Glossary

424

Consolidated Set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards

3

GRI 101: FOUNDATION
2016

GRI

101

Contents
Introduction

3

A. Background on sustainability reporting
B. Overview of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
C. Using this Standard

3
3
5

GRI 101: Foundation

7

1. Reporting Principles
2. Using the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting
3. Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards

7
17
21

Key Terms

27

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
The full set of GRI Standards can be downloaded at
www.globalreporting.org/standards. Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be
submitted to standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 101: Foundation applies to any organization that wants to use the GRI Standards
to report about its economic, environmental, and/or social impacts. Therefore, this
Standard is applicable to:
•

an organization that intends to prepare a sustainability report in accordance
with the GRI Standards; or

•

an organization that intends to use selected GRI Standards, or parts of their
content, to report on impacts related to specific economic, social, and/or
environmental topics (e.g., to report on emissions only).

GRI 101 can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector, or
geographic location.
Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms defined in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

2

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Introduction

A. Background on sustainability reporting
In 1987, the World Commission on Environment and Development set out an aspirational goal of sustainable
development – describing it as ‘development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the
ability of future generations to meet their own needs.’1
Through their activities and relationships, all organizations make positive and negative contributions toward the goal
of sustainable development. Organizations therefore have a key role to play in achieving this goal.
Sustainability reporting, as promoted by the GRI Standards, is an organization’s practice of reporting publicly on its
economic, environmental, and/or social impacts, and hence its contributions – positive or negative – towards the
goal of sustainable development.
Through this process, an organization identifies its significant impacts on the economy, the environment,
and/or society and discloses them in accordance with a globally-accepted standard.
The GRI Standards create a common language for organizations and stakeholders, with which the economic,
environmental, and social impacts of organizations can be communicated and understood. The Standards are
designed to enhance the global comparability and quality of information on these impacts, thereby enabling
greater transparency and accountability of organizations.
Sustainability reporting based on the GRI Standards
should provide a balanced and reasonable representation
of an organization’s positive and negative contributions
towards the goal of sustainable development.

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

The information made available through sustainability
reporting allows internal and external stakeholders
to form opinions and to make informed decisions
about an organization’s contribution to the goal
of sustainable development.

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

B. Overview of the GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards

The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated standards. They have been developed
primarily to be used together to help an organization
prepare a sustainability report which is based on the
Reporting Principles and focuses on material topics.

1

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) are designed to be used by organizations
to report about their impacts on the economy,
the environment, and/or society.
Using the GRI Standards as a set to prepare
a sustainability report

General
Disclosures

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

World Commission on Environment and Development. 'Our Commonn Future'. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

3

Introduction
Preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards demonstrates that the report provides a full and balanced
picture of an organization’s material topics and related impacts, as well as how these impacts are managed.
A report in accordance with the GRI Standards can be produced as a stand-alone sustainability report, or can
reference information disclosed in a variety of locations and formats (e.g., electronic or paper-based). Any report
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to include a GRI content index, which is presented in
one location and includes the page number or URL for all disclosures reported. See clause 2.6 in this Standard
and Disclosure 102-55 in GRI 102: General Disclosures.
Using selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content, to report specific information
An organization can also use selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content, to report specific information,
provided that the relevant Standards are referenced correctly.
See Section 3 for more detail on using and referencing the GRI Standards.
Structure of the Standards
The GRI Standards are divided into four series:
Series

Description

Universal Standards
100 series

The 100 series includes three universal Standards:
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using the set of GRI Standards.
GRI 101 sets out the Reporting Principles for defining report content and
quality. It includes requirements for preparing a sustainability report in
accordance with the GRI Standards, and describes how the GRI Standards
can be used and referenced. GRI 101 also includes the specific claims that are
required for organizations preparing a sustainability report in accordance with
the Standards, and for those using selected GRI Standards to report specific
information.
GRI 102: General Disclosures is used to report contextual information about
an organization and its sustainability reporting practices. This includes
information about an organization’s profile, strategy, ethics and integrity,
governance, stakeholder engagement practices, and reporting process.
GRI 103: Management Approach is used to report information about how
an organization manages a material topic. It is designed to be used for each
material topic in a sustainability report, including those covered by the topicspecific GRI Standards (series 200, 300, and 400) and other material topics.
Applying GRI 103 with each material topic allows the organization to provide
a narrative explanation of why the topic is material, where the impacts occur
(the topic Boundary), and how the organization manages the impacts.

Topic-specific Standards
200 series
(Economic topics)
300 series
(Environmental topics)
400 series
(Social topics)

The 200, 300, and 400 series include numerous topic-specific Standards.
These are used to report information on an organization’s impacts related to
economic, environmental, and social topics (e.g., Indirect Economic Impacts,
Water, or Employment).
To prepare a sustainability report in accordance with the GRI Standards, an
organization applies the Reporting Principles for defining report content from
GRI 101: Foundation to identify its material economic, environmental, and/or
social topics. These material topics determine which topic-specific Standards
the organization uses to prepare its sustainability report.
Selected topic-specific Standards, or parts of their content, can also be used
to report specific information, without preparing a sustainability report. See
Section 3 for more detail.

4

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Introduction
C. Using this Standard
Overview of contents
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for an organization to use the GRI Standards to report about its economic,
environmental, and/or social impacts.
•

Section 1 of this Standard presents the Reporting Principles for defining report content and report quality.
These Reporting Principles are fundamental to helping an organization decide what information to include
in a sustainability report and how to ensure the quality of the information.

•

Section 2 explains the basic process for using the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting. This section
includes fundamental requirements for applying the Reporting Principles, and for identifying and reporting
on material topics.

•

Section 3 sets out the ways that the GRI Standards can be used and the specific claims, or statements of use,
which are required for organizations using the Standards.
Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

Requirements, recommendations, and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements: These are mandatory instructions. In the text, requirements are presented in bold font and
indicated with the word 'shall'. Requirements are to be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with recommendations or guidance in order to claim that
a report has been prepared in accordance with the Standards.
Recommendations: These are cases where a particular course of action is encouraged, but not required.
In the text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance: These sections include background information, explanations and examples to help organizations
better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable requirements in order to make a claim that its report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See Table 1 in Section 3 for more information.
Figure 2 on the next page gives an example of how requirements, recommendations, and guidance are set out
in a topic-specific GRI Standard.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

5

Figure 2
Example page from a topic-specific GRI Standard

Number and title of disclosure
Reporting requirements
• The disclosure itself has the
required information to report
• Some disclosures have additional
requirements on how to compile
this information
Reporting recommendations

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization.
b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal
as speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-1.
c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.

Reporting recommendations

Actions that are encouraged, but not
required

2.5

Guidance

Guidance

Typically includes background
information, explanations and examples

6

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-3, the reporting organization should:
2.5.1

report if water or ﬂow meters do not exist and estimation by modeling is required;

2.5.2

calculate the volume of recycled/reused water based on the volume of water demand satisﬁed
by recycled/reused water, rather than by further withdrawals.

GRI 101:
Foundation

1. Reporting Principles
The Reporting Principles are fundamental to achieving high quality sustainability reporting. An organization is
required to apply the Reporting Principles if it wants to claim that its sustainability report has been prepared in
accordance with the GRI Standards (see Table 1 in Section 3 for more information). The Reporting Principles are
divided into two groups: principles for defining report content and principles for defining report quality.
The Reporting Principles for defining report content help organizations decide which content to include in the
report. This involves considering the organization’s activities, impacts, and the substantive expectations and
interests of its stakeholders.
The Reporting Principles for defining report quality guide choices on ensuring the quality of information in
a sustainability report, including its proper presentation. The quality of information is important for enabling
stakeholders to make sound and reasonable assessments of an organization, and to take appropriate actions.
Each of the Reporting Principles consists of a requirement and guidance on how to apply the principle, including
tests. The tests are tools to help an organization assess whether it has applied the principle; they are not disclosures
that are required to be reported.
Reporting Principles for defining
report content

Reporting Principles for defining
report quality

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Stakeholder Inclusiveness
Sustainability Context
Materiality
Completeness

Accuracy
Balance
Clarity
Comparability
Reliability
Timeliness

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

7

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Principles for defining report content
Stakeholder Inclusiveness
1.1 	The reporting organization shall identify its stakeholders, and explain how it has responded to
their reasonable expectations and interests.
Guidance
Stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that
can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected
by the reporting organization’s activities, products, or
services; or whose actions can reasonably be expected
to affect the ability of the organization to implement its
strategies or achieve its objectives. This includes, but is
not limited to, entities or individuals whose rights under
law or international conventions provide them with
legitimate claims vis-à-vis the organization.
Stakeholders can include employees and other workers,
shareholders, suppliers, vulnerable groups, local
communities, and NGOs or other civil society
organizations, among others.
When making decisions about the content of its
report, the organization is to consider the reasonable
expectations and interests of stakeholders. This includes
those who are unable to articulate their views and
whose concerns are presented by proxies (for example,
NGOs acting on their collective behalf); and those
with whom the organization cannot be in constant
or obvious dialogue. The organization is expected to
identify a process for taking such views into account
when determining whether a topic is material.
A process of stakeholder engagement can serve as a
tool for understanding the reasonable expectations and
interests of stakeholders, as well as their information
needs. An organization typically initiates different
types of stakeholder engagement as part of its regular
activities, which can provide useful inputs for decisions
on reporting. These include ‘routine’ engagements to
inform ongoing organizational or business processes.
Stakeholder engagement based on systematic or
generally accepted approaches, methodologies, or
principles can also be implemented specifically to inform
the preparation of the report. Other means that can
be used to satisfy this principle include monitoring
the media, engaging with the scientific community,
or collaborative activities with peers and stakeholders.
The overall approach is to be sufficiently effective
so that stakeholders’ information needs are properly
understood.

8

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

It is important that the means used are capable of
identifying direct input from stakeholders as well as
legitimately established societal expectations. Moreover,
an organization can encounter conflicting views or
expectations among its stakeholders, and is expected
to be able to explain how it balanced them when making
decisions about its reporting.
For it to be possible to assure the report process and
data, it is important for the organization to document
its approach for identifying stakeholders; deciding which
stakeholders to engage with, and how and when to
engage with them; and how engagement has influenced
the report content and the organization’s activities,
products, and services.
Systematic stakeholder engagement, executed properly,
is likely to result in ongoing learning within the
organization, as well as increased accountability to a
range of stakeholders. Accountability strengthens trust
between the organization and its stakeholders. Trust,
in turn, strengthens the credibility of the report.
Tests
The reporting organization can describe the
stakeholders to whom it considers itself accountable;
•

The report content draws upon the outcomes
of stakeholder engagement processes used by the
organization in its ongoing activities, and as required
by the legal and institutional framework in which
it operates;

•

The report content draws upon the outcomes
of any stakeholder engagement processes
undertaken specifically for the report;

•

The outcome of the stakeholder engagement
processes that inform decisions about the report
are consistent with the material topics included in
the report.

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Sustainability Context
1.2 	The report shall present the reporting organization’s performance in the wider context
of sustainability.
Guidance
Information on performance is expected to be placed
in context. The underlying question of sustainability
reporting is how an organization contributes, or aims
to contribute in the future, to the improvement or
deterioration of economic, environmental, and social
conditions at the local, regional, or global level. For
example, this can mean that in addition to reporting
on trends in eco-efficiency, the organization can also
present its absolute pollution loading in relation to the
capacity of the regional ecosystem to absorb
the pollutant.

The relationship between sustainability and
organizational strategy is expected to be made
clear in the report, as well as the context in which
disclosures are made.

•

The reporting organization presents its
understanding of sustainable development,
drawing on objective and available information,
and authoritative measures of sustainable
development, for the topics covered;

Therefore, the aim is to present the organization’s
performance in relation to broader concepts of
sustainability. This involves examining its performance
in the context of the limits and demands placed on
economic, environmental or social resources, at the
sectoral, local, regional, or global level.

•

The organization presents its performance with
reference to broader sustainable development
conditions and goals, as reflected in recognized
sectoral, local, regional, or global instruments;

•

The organization presents its performance in
a manner that communicates its impacts and
contributions in appropriate geographic contexts;

•

The organization describes how economic,
environmental, and/or social topics relate to its
long-term strategy, risks, opportunities, and goals,
including in its value chain.

This concept is often articulated with respect to the
environment, in terms of global limits on resources
and pollution levels. But it is also relevant with respect
to social and economic objectives, such as national
or international socioeconomic and sustainable
development goals. For example, the organization
can report on wages and social benefit levels in relation
to nation-wide minimum and median income levels.
It can also report on the capacity of social safety nets
to absorb those in poverty or those living close to
the poverty line.

Tests

An organization operating in a diverse range of
locations, sizes, and sectors is expected to consider
how to best frame its overall performance in the
broader context of sustainability. This can require
distinguishing between factors that drive global impacts,
such as climate change, and those that have regional
or local impacts, such as community development.
When reporting on topics that have positive or negative
local impacts, it is important to provide insight into
how the organization affects communities in different
locations. It is equally important for the organization
to distinguish between patterns of impacts across the
range of its operations, contextualizing performance
location by location.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

9

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Materiality
1.3

The report shall cover topics that:
1.3.1	reflect the reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social
impacts; or
1.3.2	

substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

Guidance
An organization is faced with a wide range of topics on
which it can report. Relevant topics, which potentially
merit inclusion in the report, are those that can
reasonably be considered important for reflecting the
organization’s economic, environmental, and social
impacts, or influencing the decisions of stakeholders. In
this context, ‘impact’ refers to the effect an organization
has on the economy, the environment, and/or society
(positive or negative). A topic can be relevant – and so
potentially material – based on only one of these
dimensions.
In financial reporting, materiality is commonly thought
of as a threshold for influencing the economic decisions
of those using an organization’s financial statements,
investors in particular.
A similar concept is also important in sustainability
reporting, but it is concerned with two dimensions,
i.e., a wider range of impacts and stakeholders. In
sustainability reporting, materiality is the principle
that determines which relevant topics are sufficiently
important that it is essential to report on them. Not
all material topics are of equal importance, and the
emphasis within a report is expected to reflect their
relative priority.
A combination of internal and external factors can
be considered when assessing whether a topic is
material. These include the organization’s overall
mission and competitive strategy, and the concerns
expressed directly by stakeholders. Materiality can also
be determined by broader societal expectations, and
by the organization’s influence on upstream entities,
such as suppliers, or downstream entities, such
as customers. Assessments of materiality are also
expected to take into account the expectations
expressed in international standards and agreements
with which the organization is expected to comply.
These internal and external factors are to be considered
when evaluating the importance of information
for reflecting significant economic, environmental,
and/or social impacts, or for stakeholders’ decision
making. Various methodologies can be used to assess
the significance of impacts. In general, ‘significant
impacts’ are those that are a subject of established
concern for expert communities, or that have been
identified using established tools, such as impact
assessment methodologies or life cycle assessments.
Impacts that are considered important enough to
require active management or engagement by the
organization are likely to be considered significant.
10

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Applying this principle ensures that the report
prioritizes material topics. Other relevant topics can
be included, but with less prominence. It is important
that the organization can explain the process by which it
determined the priority of topics.
Figure 3 presents an example matrix, for guidance
purposes. It shows the two dimensions for assessing
whether a topic is material; and that a topic can be
material based on only one of these dimensions. The
use of this exact matrix is not required; however, to
apply the Materiality principle, it is required to identify
material topics based on these two dimensions.
Disclosure 102-46 and clause 6.1 in GRI 102: General
Disclosures require an explanation of how the Materiality
principle has been applied.
Tests
In defining material topics, the reporting organization
has taken into account the following factors:
•

Reasonably estimable economic, environmental,
and/or social impacts (such as climate change,
HIV-AIDS, or poverty) identified through sound
investigation by people with recognized expertise,
or by expert bodies with recognized credentials;

•

The interests and expectations of stakeholders
specifically invested in the organization, such
as employees and shareholders;

•

Broader economic, social, and/or environmental
interests and topics raised by stakeholders such as
workers who are not employees, suppliers, local
communities, vulnerable groups, and civil society;

•

The main topics and future challenges for a sector,
as identified by peers and competitors;

•

Laws, regulations, international agreements,
or voluntary agreements of strategic significance
to the organization and its stakeholders;

•

Key organizational values, policies, strategies,
operational management systems, goals,
and targets;

•

The core competencies of the organization and the
manner in which they can contribute to sustainable
development;

Section 1: Reporting Principles
Materiality
Continued
•

Consequences for the organization which are
related to its impacts on the economy, the
environment, and/or society (for example,
risks to its business model or reputation);

•

Material topics are appropriately prioritized
in the report.

Influence on stakeholder
assessments & decisions

Figure 3
Visual representation of prioritization of topics

Significance of economic, environmental,
& social impacts

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

11

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Completeness
1.4 	The report shall include coverage of material topics and their Boundaries, sufficient to reflect
significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, and to enable stakeholders to assess
the reporting organization’s performance in the reporting period.
Guidance
Completeness primarily encompasses the following
dimensions: the list of material topics covered in the
report, topic Boundaries, and time.
The concept of completeness can also refer to practices
in information collection (for example, ensuring that
compiled data includes results from all entities where
the impacts occur) and whether the presentation of
information is reasonable and appropriate. These issues
are also related to report quality, and are addressed
in greater detail under the principles of Accuracy
and Balance.
List of material topics covered in the report:
Together, the topics covered in the report are expected
to be sufficient to reflect the organization’s significant
economic, environmental and/or social impacts, and
to enable stakeholders to assess the organization. In
determining whether the information in the report is
sufficient, the organization considers both the results
of stakeholder engagement processes and broad-based
societal expectations that are not identified directly
through stakeholder engagement processes.
Topic Boundaries: the topic Boundary is a description
of where the impacts occur for a material topic, and
the organization’s involvement with those impacts.
Organizations might be involved with impacts either
through their own activities or as a result
of their business relationships with other entities.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards is expected to report not
only on impacts it causes, but also on impacts it
contributes to, and impacts that are directly linked
to its activities, products or services through a
business relationship. 2 See clause 2.4 of this Standard
and GRI 103: Management Approach for more
information on topic Boundaries.

In making estimates of future impacts (both positive and
negative), the reported information is expected to be
based on well-reasoned estimates that reflect the likely
size and nature of impacts. Although such estimates are
by nature subject to uncertainty, they provide useful
information for decision-making, as long as the basis
for estimates is clearly reported and the limitations of
the estimates are clearly acknowledged. Disclosing the
nature and likelihood of such impacts, even if they can
only materialize in the future, is consistent with the goal
of providing a balanced and reasonable representation
of the organization’s economic, environmental, and
social impacts.
Tests
•

The report takes into account impacts the
reporting organization causes, contributes
to, or is directly linked to through a business
relationship, and covers and prioritizes all material
information on the basis of the principles of
Materiality, Sustainability Context, and Stakeholder
Inclusiveness;

•

The information in the report includes all significant
impacts in the reporting period, and reasonable
estimates of significant future impacts when those
impacts are reasonably foreseeable and can become
unavoidable or irreversible;

•

The report does not omit relevant information that
substantively influences stakeholder assessments
and decisions, or that reflects significant economic,
environmental, and social impacts.

Time: Time refers to the need for the selected
information to be complete for the time period
specified by the report. As far as practicable, activities,
events, and impacts are expected to be presented for
the reporting period in which they occur. This includes
reporting on activities that produce minimal short-term
impact, but which have a significant and reasonably
foreseeable cumulative effect that can become
unavoidable or irreversible in the longer-term
(such as bio-accumulative or persistent pollutants).

2

12

These concepts are based on the following instruments:
•
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
	
•	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect
and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Principles for defining report quality
Accuracy
1.5 	The reported information shall be sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders to assess the
reporting organization’s performance.
Guidance
This principle is designed to reflect the fact that
information can be expressed in many different ways,
from qualitative responses to detailed quantitative
measurements.
The characteristics that define accuracy vary, depending
on the nature of the information and who is using it.
For example, the accuracy of qualitative information
can be affected by its degree of clarity and detail, and
its balance with respect to the topic Boundary. The
accuracy of quantitative information can depend on
the specific methods used to gather, compile, and
analyze data.
Moreover, the specific threshold of accuracy can depend
partly on the intended use of the information. Certain
decisions by stakeholders require higher levels of
accuracy in reported information than others.

Tests
•

The report indicates the data that have been
measured;

•

The measurements for data, and bases for
calculations, are adequately described, and can
be replicated with similar results;

•

The margin of error for quantitative data is not
sufficient to influence substantially the ability of
stakeholders to reach appropriate and informed
conclusions;

•

The report indicates which data have been
estimated, and the underlying assumptions and
techniques used for the estimation, or where that
information can be found;

•

The qualitative statements in the report are
consistent with other reported information and
other available evidence.

Balance
1.6 	The reported information shall reflect positive and negative aspects of the reporting organization’s
performance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall performance.
Guidance
The overall presentation of the report’s content
is expected to provide an unbiased picture of the
organization’s performance.

Tests
•

The report covers both favorable and unfavorable
results and topics;

The report is expected to avoid selections, omissions,
or presentation formats that are reasonably likely
to unduly or inappropriately influence a decision or
judgment by the report reader. The report is expected
to include both favorable and unfavorable results, as
well as information that can influence the decisions
of stakeholders in proportion to their materiality. The
report is also expected to distinguish clearly between
facts and the organization’s interpretation of them.

•

The information in the report is presented in
a format that allows users to see positive and
negative trends in performance on a
year-to-year basis;

•

The emphasis on the various topics in the report
reflects their relative priority.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

13

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Clarity
1.7 	The reporting organization shall make information available in a manner that is understandable
and accessible to stakeholders using that information.
Guidance
The report is expected to present information in a way
that is understandable, accessible, and usable by the
organization’s range of stakeholders, whether in print
form or through other channels.

Tests
•

The report contains the level of information
required by stakeholders, but avoids excessive
and unnecessary detail;

It is important that stakeholders are able to find the
information they want without unreasonable effort.
Information is expected to be presented in a manner
that is comprehensible to stakeholders who have a
reasonable understanding of the organization and its
activities.

•

Stakeholders can find the specific information
they want without unreasonable effort through
tables of contents, maps, links, or other aids;

•

The report avoids technical terms, acronyms,
jargon, or other content likely to be unfamiliar
to stakeholders, and includes explanations (where
necessary) in the relevant section or in a glossary;

•

The information in the report is available to
stakeholders, including those with particular
accessibility needs, such as differing abilities,
language, or technology.

Graphics and consolidated data tables can help to make
information in the report accessible and understandable.
The level of aggregation of information can also affect
the clarity of the report, if it is more or less detailed
than stakeholders expect.

Comparability
1.8 	The reporting organization shall select, compile, and report information consistently. The
reported information shall be presented in a manner that enables stakeholders to analyze
changes in the organization’s performance over time, and that could support analysis relative
to other organizations.
Guidance
Comparability is necessary for evaluating performance.
It is important that stakeholders are able to compare
information on the organization’s current economic,
environmental, and social performance against the
organization’s past performance, its objectives, and, to
the degree possible, against the performance of other
organizations.

However, within the confines of the Materiality
principle, the organization is expected to aim for
consistency in its reports over time. The organization
is expected to include total numbers (that is, absolute
data, such as tons of waste) as well as ratios (that is,
normalized data, such as waste per unit of production)
to enable analytical comparisons.

Consistency allows internal and external parties to
benchmark performance and assess progress as part
of rating activities, investment decisions, advocacy
programs, and other activities. Comparisons between
organizations require sensitivity to factors such as the
organizations’ size, geographic influences, and other
considerations that can affect the relative performance
of an organization. When necessary, it is important to
provide context that helps report users understand the
factors that can contribute to differences in impacts or
performance between organizations.

Changes can occur with respect to material topics, topic
Boundaries, the length of the reporting period, or
information, including the design, definitions, and use
of disclosures in the report. When this happens, the
reporting organization is expected to present current
disclosures alongside restatements of historic data,
or vice versa. This can ensure that information and
comparisons are reliable and meaningful over time.
When such restatements are not provided, the
organization is expected to give sufficient explanations
for interpreting current disclosures.

To facilitate comparability over time, it is important to
maintain consistency in the methods used to calculate
data, the layout of the report, and explanations of
methods and assumptions used to prepare information.
As the importance of a topic to an organization and
its stakeholders can change over time, the content
of reports can also evolve.

14

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Section 1: Reporting Principles
Comparability
Continued
Tests
•

The report and its information can be compared
on a year-to-year basis;

•

The reporting organization’s performance can be
compared with appropriate benchmarks;

•

Any significant variation between reporting periods
in the list of material topics, topic Boundaries,
length of reporting period, or information covered
in the report can be identified and explained;

•

When they are available, the report utilizes
generally accepted protocols for compiling,
measuring, and presenting information, including
the information required by the GRI Standards.

Reliability
1.9 	The reporting organization shall gather, record, compile, analyze, and report information and
processes used in the preparation of the report in a way that they can be subject to examination,
and that establishes the quality and materiality of the information.
Guidance
It is important that stakeholders are confident that
the report can be checked to establish the veracity
of its contents and the extent to which the Reporting
Principles have been applied.
Individuals other than those who prepared the report
are expected to be able to review internal controls or
documentation that supports the information in the
report. Disclosures about the reporting organization’s
impacts or performance that are not substantiated by
evidence do not need to appear in the sustainability
report unless they represent material information, and
the report provides unambiguous explanations of any
uncertainties associated with the information.

Tests
•

The scope and extent of external assurance
is identified;

•

The organization can identify the original sources
of the information in the report;

•

The organization can provide reliable evidence
to support assumptions or complex calculations;

•

Representation is available from the original data or
information owners, attesting to its accuracy within
acceptable margins of error.

The decision-making processes underlying the report
are to be documented in a manner that allows for the
examination of key decisions, such as processes for
determining the report content and topic Boundaries,
or stakeholder engagement. If the organization designs
information systems for its reporting, it is expected to
anticipate that the systems can be examined as part
of an external assurance process.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

15

Section 1: Reporting Principles

Timeliness
1.10 	The reporting organization shall report on a regular schedule so that information is available in time
for stakeholders to make informed decisions.
Guidance
The usefulness of information is closely tied to whether
it is available in time for stakeholders to integrate it into
their decision-making. Timeliness refers to the regularity
of reporting as well as its proximity to the impacts
described in the report.
Although a constant flow of information is desirable for
certain purposes, the reporting organization is expected
to commit to regularly providing consolidated disclosure
of its economic, environmental, and social impacts,
at a single point in time.
Consistency in the frequency of reporting, and the
length of reporting periods, is also necessary to enable
the comparability of information over time, and the
report’s accessibility to stakeholders. It can be valuable
for stakeholders if the schedules for sustainability
reporting and other forms of reporting, in particular
financial reporting, are aligned. The organization is
expected to balance the need to provide information
in a timely manner with the need to ensure that the
information is reliable, including any restatements
of previous disclosures.

16

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Tests
•

Information in the report has been disclosed while
it is recent, relative to the reporting period;

•

The information in the report clearly indicates
the time period to which it relates, when it will
be updated, and when the latest updates were
made, and separately identifies any restatements
of previous disclosures along with the reasons for
restatement.

2. Using the GRI Standards for
sustainability reporting
This section sets out the basic process for sustainability reporting using the GRI Standards. An organization that
wants to claim its sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards (either Core
or Comprehensive option) is required to comply with all requirements in this section. These requirements are
denoted by the use of ‘shall’ in the text and bold font. They guide the reporting organization through the process
of preparing a sustainability report in which:
•
•
•

the Reporting Principles have been applied;
disclosures giving contextual information about the organization have been made;
every material topic has been identified and reported on.

Some clauses in this section are closely linked to disclosures in GRI 102: General Disclosures and GRI 103:
Management Approach, which ask for specific information to be disclosed by the reporting organization.
In these cases, the relevant disclosures from GRI 102 or GRI 103 are identified within guidance.

Applying the Reporting Principles
2.1 	The reporting organization shall apply all Reporting Principles from Section 1 to define report
content and quality.
Guidance
It is important that an organization using the GRI
Standards to prepare a sustainability report has
understood and implemented the ten Reporting
Principles for defining report content and quality.
These principles guide choices about the selection
and quality of information in the report.

Disclosure 102-46 in GRI 102: General Disclosures
requires an explanation of how the organization has
implemented the Reporting Principles for defining
report content.

Reporting general disclosures
2.2

The reporting organization shall report the required disclosures from GRI 102: General Disclosures.

Guidance
The general disclosures request contextual information
about an organization and its sustainability reporting
practices. If an organization wants to claim that
its report has been prepared in accordance with
the GRI Standards (Core or Comprehensive option),

there are a number of disclosures from GRI 102:
General Disclosures which it is required to report.
For more information, see Table 1 in Section 3.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

17

Section 2: Using the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting

Identifying material topics and their Boundaries
2.3 	The reporting organization shall identify its material topics using the Reporting Principles for
defining report content.
2.3.1 	The reporting organization should consult the GRI Sector Disclosures that relate to its
sector, if available, to assist with identifying its material topics.
2.4

The reporting organization shall identify the Boundary for each material topic.

Guidance
Material topics are those that an organization has
prioritized for inclusion in the sustainability report.
This prioritization exercise is carried out using the
Stakeholder Inclusiveness and the Materiality principles.
The Materiality principle identifies material topics based
on the following two dimensions:
•

The significance of the organization’s economic,
environmental, and social impacts;

•

Their substantive influence on the assessments
and decisions of stakeholders.

In applying the Materiality principle, ‘impact’ refers to
the effect an organization has on the economy, the
environment, and/or society, which in turn can indicate
its contribution (positive or negative) to sustainable
development. For more information on the Materiality
principle, see clause 1.3.
Disclosure 102-47 in GRI 102: General Disclosures
requires reporting the list of material topics.
Using the GRI Sector Disclosures
The GRI Sector Disclosures provide additional sectorspecific disclosures and guidance which can be used
in conjunction with the GRI Standards. The Sector
Disclosures can be found on the GRI Standards website.
It is recommended that the reporting organization
consults the relevant Sector Disclosures, if available,
to help identify its material topics. However, the use
of the Sector Disclosures is not intended to be a
substitute for applying the Reporting Principles for
defining report content.
Linking identified material topics to the GRI Standards
The use of ‘topics’ in the GRI Standards refers to broad
economic, environmental, and social subjects, such as
Indirect Economic Impacts, Water, or Employment.
These topic names are intentionally broad, and each
topic can cover numerous related concepts.
For example, the topic ‘Water’ can encompass a range
of more specific but related subjects, such as ‘water
stress’ or ‘access to water’.

The list of topics covered by the GRI Standards is not
exhaustive. In some cases, an organization may identify a
material topic that does not match exactly with the
available topic-specific Standards. In this case, if the
material topic is similar to one of the available topic
Standards, or can be considered to relate to it, the
organization is expected to use that Standard for
reporting on the topic in question.
If the organization identifies a material topic that cannot
reasonably be related to one of the topic-specific
Standards, see clauses 2.5.1 and 2.5.3 for requirements
about how to report on it.
Reporting the Boundary for each material topic
The topic Boundary is the description of where the
impacts occur for a material topic, and the organization’s
involvement with those impacts. Organizations might
be involved with impacts either through their own
activities or as a result of their business relationships
with other entities. An organization preparing a report
in accordance with the GRI Standards is expected
to report not only on impacts it causes, but also on
impacts it contributes to, and impacts that are directly
linked to its activities, products or services through
a business relationship. 3 In the context of this GRI
Standard, an organization’s business relationships can
include relationships with business partners, entities
in its value chain, and any other non-State or State entity
directly linked to its business operations, products or
services.4
Disclosure 103-1 in GRI 103: Management Approach
requires reporting the Boundary for each material
topic. See GRI 103 for more detailed information
on topic Boundaries.

These concepts are based on the following instruments:
•
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
	•	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect
and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
4
Source: United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect
and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
3

18

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Section 2: Using the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting

Reporting on material topics
2.5

For each material topic, the reporting organization:
2.5.1 	shall report the management approach disclosures for that topic, using GRI 103:
Management Approach; and either:
2.5.2 	shall report the topic-specific disclosures in the corresponding GRI Standard, if the
material topic is covered by an existing GRI Standard (series 200, 300, and 400); or
2.5.3 	should report other appropriate disclosures, if the material topic is not covered
by an existing GRI Standard.

Guidance
Guidance for clause 2.5
To claim that its report has been prepared in
accordance with the GRI Standards, the reporting
organization is required to report on all material topics
identified (the list of material topics is reported with
Disclosure 102-47 in GRI 102: General Disclosures). If
a material topic is not covered by an existing topicspecific GRI Standard, the organization is still required
to report on its management approach using GRI 103:
Management Approach, and is recommended to use
appropriate disclosures from other sources to report
on its impacts.
In other cases, an organization might want to use
additional disclosures from other sources to report on
material topics covered by the GRI Standards, as well
as reporting the GRI disclosures.
Any additional disclosures are expected to be subject
to the same technical rigor as the disclosures in the GRI
Standards, and to be consistent with other established
standards or reporting frameworks where available
and relevant.

Reporting topics where the Boundary extends beyond the
reporting organization
In some cases, if the Boundary of a topic extends
beyond the organization, it may not be possible to
report some topic-specific disclosures. For example,
if the Boundary for a topic includes part of the supply
chain, the organization might not be able to access
the necessary information from suppliers. In these
cases, to prepare a report in accordance with the GRI
Standards, the organization is still required to report
its management approach for the topic, but can use
the recognized reasons for omission for topic-specific
disclosures. See clause 3.2 for more information on
reasons for omission.
Disclosure 103-1-c in GRI 103: Management Approach
requires reporting any specific limitation regarding the
topic Boundary.

Presenting information
Reporting required disclosures using references
2.6 	If the reporting organization reports a required disclosure using a reference to another source
where the information is located, the organization shall ensure:
2.6.1 	the reference includes the specific location of the required disclosure;
2.6.2

the referenced information is publicly available and readily accessible.

Guidance
Information for a required disclosure might already be
included in other materials prepared by the reporting
organization, such as its annual report. In this case, an
organization can choose to not repeat these disclosures
in its sustainability report, but instead give a reference
to where the information can be found.

This approach is acceptable as long as the reference
is specific, publicly available and readily accessible.
For example, a reference to the annual report is
acceptable when it includes the page number, section
name, or other specific indication of where to find the
information.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

19

Section 2: Using the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting
Presenting information
Continued
Guidance
Reporting format
The reporting organization can choose to use a
combination of electronic and paper-based reports, or
use only one format. For example, the organization can
choose to provide a detailed report on its website and
provide an executive summary in paper form.

Regardless of the format, reports prepared in
accordance with the GRI Standards are required to
include a GRI content index. The content index is
required to be presented in one location and to include
the page number or URL for all disclosures reported.
See Disclosure 102-55 in GRI 102: General Disclosures
for more information.

Compiling and presenting information in the report
2.7

When preparing a sustainability report, the reporting organization should:
2.7.1 	present information for the current reporting period and at least two previous periods,
as well as future short and medium-term targets if they have been established;
2.7.2 	compile and report information using generally accepted international metrics (such as kilograms
or liters) and standard conversion factors, and explain the basis of measurement/calculation where
not otherwise apparent;
2.7.3

provide absolute data and explanatory notes when using ratios or normalized data;

2.7.4

define a consistent reporting period for issuing a report.

Guidance
When preparing a report, the reporting organization
can identify information or processes that have not
changed since the previous report. The organization
can choose to update only the information that has
changed, and to republish or provide a reference
to any disclosures that have not changed in the
reporting period.

20

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

3. Making claims related to the use of the
GRI Standards
There are two basic approaches for using the GRI Standards:
1.
2.

Using the GRI Standards as a set to prepare a sustainability report in accordance with the Standards.
Using selected Standards, or parts of their content, to report specific information.

For each of these ways of using the Standards there is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, that is defined
in this Standard. Any published materials with disclosures based on the GRI Standards are always to be referenced
using one of these claims. This ensures transparency about how the Standards have been applied.

Using the GRI Standards as a set to prepare a sustainability report in accordance
with the Standards
An organization that wants to use the GRI Standards to report on its economic, environmental, and/or social
impacts is encouraged to use this approach, and to meet the criteria for reporting in accordance with the
Standards (see Table 1). Meeting these criteria demonstrates that a sustainability report provides a full and
balanced picture of the organization’s material topics and related impacts, as well as how these impacts are
managed.
A report in accordance with the GRI Standards can be produced as a stand-alone sustainability report, or can
reference information disclosed in a variety of locations and formats (e.g., electronic or paper-based). Any report
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to include a GRI content index, which is presented in
one location and includes the page number or URL for all disclosures reported. See clause 2.6 in this Standard
and Disclosure 102-55 in GRI 102: General Disclosures.
There are two options for preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core and Comprehensive.
Core. This option indicates that a report contains the minimum information needed to understand the nature
of the organization, its material topics and related impacts, and how these are managed.
Comprehensive. This builds on the Core option by requiring additional disclosures on the organization’s strategy,
ethics and integrity, and governance. In addition, the organization is required to report more extensively on its
impacts by reporting all the topic-specific disclosures for each material topic covered by the GRI Standards.
These options do not relate to the quality of the information in the report or the magnitude of the organization’s
impacts. Instead, they reflect the degree to which the GRI Standards have been applied. An organization is not
required to progress from Core to Comprehensive; it can choose the option that best meets its reporting needs
and the information needs of its stakeholders.
See Table 1 for the specific criteria to claim that a report is in accordance with the GRI Standards.

Using selected Standards, or parts of their content, to report specific
information
This option is referred to as a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim. It is appropriate for an organization that wants to report on
specific economic, environmental, and/or social impacts, but which is not looking to use the GRI Standards to
provide a full picture of its material topics and related impacts.
For example, an organization might want to report on its impacts on biodiversity for a certain stakeholder group.
In this case, the organization could use the disclosures from GRI 103: Management Approach and GRI 304: Biodiversity,
and would include the required GRI-referenced claim in any published materials based on these Standards. See
clause 3.3 for the specific criteria to make a GRI-referenced claim.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

21

Section 3: Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards

Claims that a report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards
3.1 	To claim that a sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards, the reporting organization shall meet all criteria for the respective option
(Core or Comprehensive) from Table 1 (on page 23):
Guidance
Disclosure 102-54 in GRI 102: General Disclosures
requires reporting the claim made by the organization
for any reports prepared in accordance with the
Standards (either Core or Comprehensive option).
If the organization does not meet the minimum criteria
in Table 1 for Core or Comprehensive, it cannot make a
claim that its report has been prepared in accordance
with the GRI Standards. In these cases, a GRIreferenced claim is required to be included in any
published materials with disclosures based on the GRI
Standards. The next section outlines how to make a
GRI-referenced claim.
An organization that reports additional disclosures
beyond the criteria for Core, but does not meet the
minimum criteria for Comprehensive, cannot make a
claim of being in accordance: Comprehensive option.
It can, however, include any additional disclosures
reported in its GRI content index.

22

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

GRI content index
An organization preparing a report in accordance with
the GRI Standards, whether Core or Comprehensive, is
required to include a GRI content index, which lists all
GRI Standards used and disclosures reported. See
Disclosure 102-55 in GRI 102: General Disclosures for
more information.
Selecting disclosures to report for the Core option
Many of the topic-specific GRI Standards include
numerous disclosures. If the reporting organization
does not report every disclosure for a given topic, it
is expected to select and report the disclosure(s) that
most adequately reflect its impacts for that topic.

Section 3: Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards
Table 1
Criteria to claim a report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards
Required criteria

Core option

Comprehensive option

Use the correct claim
(statement of use) in
any published materials
with disclosures based
on the GRI Standards

Include the following statement: ‘This report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards: Core option’

Include the following statement: ‘This report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards: Comprehensive option’

Use GRI 101:
Foundation to follow
the basic process
for preparing a
sustainability report

Comply with all requirements in
Section 2 of GRI 101: Foundation (‘Using the
GRI Standards for sustainability reporting’)

[Same as for Core]

Use GRI 102: General
Disclosures to report
contextual information
about the organization

Comply with all reporting requirements
for the following disclosures from
GRI 102: General Disclosures:
• Disclosures 102-1 to 102-13
(Organizational profile)
• Disclosure 102-14 (Strategy)
• Disclosure 102-16 (Ethics and
integrity)
• Disclosure 102-18 (Governance)
• Disclosures 102-40 to 102-44
(Stakeholder engagement)
• Disclosures 102-45 to 102-56
(Reporting practice)

Comply with all reporting requirements
for all disclosures from GRI 102: General
Disclosures

Use GRI 103:
Management Approach
to report the
management approach
and the topic Boundary
for all material topics5

For each material topic, comply with all
reporting requirements from GRI 103:
Management Approach

[Same as for Core]

Use the topic-specific
GRI Standards
(series 200, 300, 400)
to report on material
topics

For each material topic covered by a topicspecific GRI Standard:
• comply with all reporting requirements
in the ‘Management approach
disclosures’ section
• comply with all reporting requirements
for at least one topic-specific
disclosure

For each material topic covered by a
topic-specific GRI Standard:
• comply with all reporting
requirements in the ‘Management
approach disclosures’ section
• comply with all reporting
requirements for all topic-specific
disclosures

For each material topic not covered by a
GRI Standard, it is recommended to report
other appropriate disclosures for that topic
(see clause 2.5.3)

For each material topic not covered by
a GRI Standard, it is recommended to
report other appropriate disclosures for
that topic (see clause 2.5.3)

Reasons for omission are permitted for all
topic-specific disclosures (see clause 3.2)

Reasons for omission are permitted for all
topic-specific disclosures (see clause 3.2)

Ensure that reasons
for omission are used
correctly, if applicable

Comply with all requirements in clause 3.2
(Reasons for omission)

[Same as for Core]

Notify GRI of the use of
the Standards

Comply with all requirements in clause 3.4
(Notifying GRI of the use of the Standards)

[Same as for Core]

5

Reasons for omission are only permitted
for the following disclosures: Disclosure
102-17 (Ethics and integrity), and
Disclosures 102-19 to 102-39 (Governance).
See clause 3.2 for more information

Reasons for omission are only permitted for
Disclosures 103-2 and 103-3 (see clause 3.2)

This includes material topics covered by the GRI Standards and those not covered by the GRI Standards.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

23

Section 3: Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards

Reasons for omission
3.2 	If, in exceptional cases, an organization preparing a sustainability report in accordance with the
GRI Standards cannot report a required disclosure, the organization shall provide in the report
a reason for omission that:
3.2.1 	describes the specific information that has been omitted; and
3.2.2 	specifies one of the following reasons for omission from Table 2, including the required
explanation for that reason.
Table 2
Reasons for omission
Reason for omission

Required explanation in the sustainability report

Not applicable

Specify the reason(s) why the disclosure is considered to be not applicable.

Confidentiality
constraints

Describe the specific confidentiality constraints prohibiting the disclosure.

Specific legal
prohibitions

Describe the specific legal prohibitions.

Information unavailable

Describe the specific steps being taken to obtain the information and the
expected timeframe for doing so.
If the reason for omission is due to the fact that the necessary information
cannot be obtained, or is not of adequate quality to report (as may sometimes
be the case when the Boundary for a material topic extends beyond the
reporting organization), explain this situation.

Guidance
Reasons for omission can be used if, in exceptional
cases, an organization cannot report a disclosure that
is required for reporting in accordance with the GRI
Standards (either Core or Comprehensive option).
Reasons for omission can only be used for certain
disclosures – see Table 1 for more detail. Additionally,
if an organization omits a large number of required
disclosures, this can reduce the credibility of the report
and its usefulness to stakeholders.
Using ‘not applicable’ as a reason for omission
The ‘not applicable’ reason for omission can be used if
the specific situation covered by the disclosure does not
apply to the organization. For example, the organization
may identify ‘Energy’ and ‘Emissions’ as material topics,
but the only form of energy the organization consumes
is purchased electricity. In this case, fuel is not directly
consumed within the organization, or by sources it owns
or controls. Therefore, the disclosures related to fuel
consumption within the organization, and Direct (Scope
1) GHG emissions, can be considered ‘not applicable’.

24

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

‘Not applicable’ can also be used as a reason for
omission if a disclosure does not cover the specific
impacts that make the topic material. For example,
the topic ‘Water’ can be material for an organization
that uses flowing water to generate hydroelectric
power. However, the existing disclosures for this
topic relate to water withdrawal, and water recycling/
reuse, and therefore do not adequately measure the
organization’s impacts (e.g., changes to the volume of
water flow). Therefore, the existing disclosures in
GRI 303: Water can be considered ‘not applicable’ for
this organization.
Reasons for omission if the topic Boundary extends beyond
the reporting organization
If the Boundary for a material topic extends beyond
the organization, and the organization cannot obtain
information of sufficient quality to enable reporting,
‘information unavailable’ can be used as the reason for
omission. In this case, the reason for omission is to
include an explanation of why the information cannot
be obtained. Even if topic-specific disclosures cannot
be reported in this situation, the organization is still
required to report its management approach for the
topic (using GRI 103: Management Approach) if it wants
to claim that its report has been prepared in accordance
with the GRI Standards.

Section 3: Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards

Using selected Standards with a GRI-referenced claim
3.3 	If the reporting organization uses selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content, to report
specific information, but has not met the criteria to prepare a report in accordance with
the GRI Standards (as per clause 3.1), the organization:
3.3.1 	shall include in any published material with disclosures based on the GRI Standards
a statement that:
		

3.3.1.1 	contains the following text: ‘This material references [title and publication
year of the Standard]’, for each Standard used;

		

3.3.1.2 	indicates which specific content from the Standard has been applied,
if the Standard has not been used in full;

3.3.2

shall comply with all reporting requirements that correspond to the disclosures reported;

3.3.3

shall notify GRI of the use of the Standards, as per clause 3.4;

3.3.4

should apply the Reporting Principles for defining report quality from Section 1;

3.3.5 	should report its management approach by applying GRI 103: Management Approach
together with any topic-specific Standard (series 200, 300, or 400) used.
Guidance
Any organization using disclosures from the GRI
Standards in published materials is required to state
how it has done so. If the organization does not meet
the in accordance criteria in Table 1, it is still required
to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim in any published
materials with disclosures based on the Standards.
A GRI-referenced claim has specific wording as set out
in clause 3.3.1.1. For example: ‘This material references
Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2 from GRI 305: Emissions
2016, and Disclosures 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 from
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016.’

An organization making this selective use of the
Standards is not able to claim that it has prepared a
report in accordance with the GRI Standards. However,
it is still important for an organization to apply the
Reporting Principles for defining report quality. These
principles help to ensure that the information is accurate
and of high quality, which in turn enables stakeholders to
make sound assessments based on that information.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

25

Section 3: Making claims related to the use of the GRI Standards

Notifying GRI of the use of the Standards
3.4 	The reporting organization shall notify GRI of its use of the GRI Standards, and the claim
it has made in the report or published material, by either:
3.4.1

sending a copy to GRI at standards@globalreporting.org; or

3.4.2 	registering the report or published material at www.globalreporting.org/standards.

Guidance
Note that this requirement applies to both:

26

•

sustainability reports prepared in accordance
with the GRI Standards, using either the Core
or Comprehensive option; and

•

published materials that include a GRIreferenced claim.

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Notifying GRI of the use of the GRI Standards
provides transparency in how the Standards are
applied by organizations around the world. There
is no cost associated with notifying GRI of the use
of the Standards.

Key Terms

The following selected terms and definitions from the GRI Standards Glossary 6 are useful
for understanding GRI 101: Foundation.
impact
	In the GRI Standards, unless otherwise stated, ‘impact’ refers to the effect an organization has on the
economy, the environment, and/or society, which in turn can indicate its contribution (positive or
negative) to sustainable development.
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, the term ‘impact’ can refer to positive, negative, actual, potential, direct,
indirect, short-term, long-term, intended, or unintended impacts.
Note 2: Impacts on the economy, environment, and/or society can also be related to consequences
for the organization itself. For example, an impact on the economy, environment, and/or society
can lead to consequences for the organization’s business model, reputation, or ability
to achieve its objectives.

management approach disclosure
narrative description about how an organization manages its material topics and their related impacts
Note: D
 isclosures about an organization’s management approach also provide context for
the information reported using topic-specific Standards (series 200, 300, and 400).

material topic
	topic that reflects a reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts;
or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders
Note 1: For more information on identifying a material topic, see the Reporting Principles for defining
report content in GRI 101: Foundation.
Note 2: To prepare a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, an organization is required to report
on its material topics.
Note 3: M
 aterial topics can include, but are not limited to, the topics covered by the GRI Standards
in the 200, 300, and 400 series.

reporting period
specific time span covered by the information reported
Note: Unless otherwise stated, the GRI Standards require information from the organization’s
chosen reporting period.

Reporting Principle
	concept that describes the outcomes a report is expected to achieve, and that guides decisions made
throughout the reporting process around report content or quality

6

The full GRI Standards Glossary can be found at https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/media/1035/gri-standards-glossary-2016.pdf

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

27

Key Terms

stakeholder
	entity or individual that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the reporting
organization’s activities, products and services, or whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect
the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives
Note 1: S takeholders include entities or individuals whose rights under law or international conventions
provide them with legitimate claims vis-à-vis to the organization.
Note 2: S takeholders can include those who are invested in the organization (such as employees and
shareholders), as well as those who have other relationships to the organization (such as other
workers who are not employees, suppliers, vulnerable groups, local communities, and NGOs
or other civil society organizations, among others).

sustainable development/sustainability
	development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs
Note 1: Sustainable development encompasses three dimensions: economic, environmental and social.
Note 2: S ustainable development refers to broader environmental and societal interests, rather than
to the interests of specific organizations.
Note 3: In the GRI Standards, the terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used
interchangeably.

topic
economic, environmental or social subject
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, topics are grouped according to the three dimensions of sustainable
development: economic, environmental and social.
Note 2: To prepare a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, an organization is required
to report on its material topics.

topic Boundary
	description of where the impacts occur for a material topic, and the organization’s involvement
with those impacts
Note: Topic Boundaries vary based on the topics reported.

28

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-055-9

29

GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
2016

GRI

102

1

Contents

2

Introduction		

5

GRI 102: General Disclosures

7

1. Organizational profile
Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization
Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services
Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters
Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations
Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form
Disclosure 102-6 Markets served
Disclosure 102-7 Scale of the organization
Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers
Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain
Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives
Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations

7
7
7
8
8
8
8
9
10
11
12
12
13
13

2. Strategy
Disclosure 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker
Disclosure 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

14
14
15

3. Ethics and integrity
Disclosure 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
Disclosure 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

16
16
17

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

4. Governance
Disclosure 102-18 Governance structure
Disclosure 102-19 Delegating authority
Disclosure 102-20	Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,
and social topics
Disclosure 102-21	Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,
and social topics
Disclosure 102-22	Composition of the highest governance body and its
committees
Disclosure 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body
Disclosure 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body
Disclosure 102-25 Conflicts of interest
Disclosure 102-26	Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,
and strategy
Disclosure 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body
Disclosure 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance
Disclosure 102-29	Identifying and managing economic, environmental,
and social impacts
Disclosure 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes
Disclosure 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics
Disclosure 102-32	Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
Disclosure 102-33 Communicating critical concerns
Disclosure 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns
Disclosure 102-35 Remuneration policies
Disclosure 102-36 Process for determining remuneration
Disclosure 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration
Disclosure 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio
Disclosure 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio

18
18
18

5. Stakeholder engagement
Disclosure 102-40 List of stakeholder groups
Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements
Disclosure 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
Disclosure 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement
Disclosure 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised

29
29
30
31
31
32

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

19
19
19
20
20
21
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
24
25
26
26
27
28

3

6. Reporting practice
Disclosure 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
Disclosure 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries
Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics
Disclosure 102-48 Restatements of information
Disclosure 102-49 Changes in reporting
Disclosure 102-50 Reporting period
Disclosure 102-51 Date of most recent report
Disclosure 102-52 Reporting cycle
Disclosure 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report
Disclosure 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
Disclosure 102-55 GRI content index
Disclosure 102-56 External assurance

33
33
34
35
35
36
36
36
37
37
37
38
41

References

43

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 102: General Disclosures sets out reporting requirements on contextual information
about an organization and its sustainability reporting practices. This Standard can be
used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms defined in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

4

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims
There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with
the Standards. There are two options for preparing
a report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 102: General Disclosures, to report on contextual
information about itself and its sustainability
reporting practices.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

5

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
Note: Throughout this Standard, a ‘Core’ icon
is used to identify those disclosures that are
required for preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards (Core option).
Organizations preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards (Comprehensive
option) are required to report all disclosures
in this Standard, although reasons for omission
are permitted for certain disclosures.
See Table 1 in GRI 101: Foundation for
more detail.

6

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

GRI 102:
General Disclosures

1. Organizational profile
These disclosures provide an overview of an organization’s size, geographic location, and activities.
This contextual information is important to help stakeholders understand the nature of the organization
and its economic, environmental and social impacts.

Core

Disclosure 102-1
Name of the organization
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-1

Core

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Name of the organization.

Disclosure 102-2
Activities, brands, products, and services
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-2

a. 	A description of the organization’s activities.
b. 	Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that
are banned in certain markets.

Reporting recommendations
1.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-2-b, the reporting organization should also
explain whether it sells products or services that are the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

7

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-3
Location of headquarters
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-3

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Location of the organization’s headquarters.

Guidance
Headquarters refers to an organization’s administrative center, from which it is controlled or directed.

Core

Disclosure 102-4
Location of operations
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-4

Core

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.	Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it
has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report.

Disclosure 102-5
Ownership and legal form
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-5

Core

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Nature of ownership and legal form.

Disclosure 102-6
Markets served
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-6

8

a. Markets served, including:
		

i.

geographic locations where products and services are offered;

		

ii. sectors served;

		

iii. types of customers and beneficiaries.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-7
Scale of the organization
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Scale of the organization, including:

Disclosure

102-7

		

i.

total number of employees;

		

ii. total number of operations;

		

iii.	net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector
organizations);

		

iv. 	total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt
and equity;

		

v.	quantity of products or services provided.

Reporting recommendations
1.2

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-7, the reporting organization should provide
the following additional information:
1.2.1

Total assets;

1.2.2

Beneficial ownership, including the identity and percentage of ownership of the largest shareholders;

1.2.3

Breakdowns of:

		 1.2.3.1

net sales or net revenues by countries or regions that make up five percent or more
of total revenues;

		 1.2.3.2

costs by countries or regions that make up five percent or more of total costs;

		 1.2.3.3

total number of employees by country or region.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

9

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-8
Information on employees and other workers
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender.
b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region.

Disclosure

102-8

c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender.
d. 	Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who
are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by
workers who are not employees.
e. 	Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c
(such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries).
f. 	An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made.

Reporting recommendations
1.3	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-8, the reporting organization should:
1.3.1 	express employee numbers as either head count or Full Time Equivalent (FTE), with the chosen
approach stated and applied consistently;
1.3.2 	identify the contract type and full-time and part-time status of employees based on the definitions
under the national laws of the country where they are based;
1.3.3 	use numbers as at the end of the reporting period, unless there has been a material change during
the reporting period;
1.3.4 	combine country statistics to calculate global statistics, and disregard differences in legal definitions.
Although what constitutes a type of contract and employment type varies between countries, the
global figure should still reflect the relationships under law.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 102-8-d
The organization’s activities are reported in Disclosure
102-2-a.

Breaking down these data by gender enables an
understanding of gender representation across an
organization, and of the optimal use of available labor
and talent.

Background

See references 6, 7, 10 and 12 in the References section.

The number of employees and workers involved in an
organization’s activities provides insight into the scale
of impacts created by labor issues.

10

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-9
Supply chain
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-9

a.	A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to
the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services.

Guidance
Examples of elements that can be covered in the
description include:
•

the types of suppliers engaged;

•

the total number of suppliers engaged by an
organization and the estimated number of suppliers
throughout the supply chain;

•

the geographic location of suppliers;

•

the estimated monetary value of payments made
to suppliers;

•

the supply chain’s sector-specific characteristics,
such as how labor intensive it is.

Background
This disclosure sets the overall context for
understanding an organization’s supply chain.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

11

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-10
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including:

Disclosure

102-10

		

i. 	Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings,
and expansions;

		

ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance,
and alteration operations (for private sector organizations);

		

iii.	Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships
with suppliers, including selection and termination.

Guidance
This disclosure covers significant changes during the
reporting period.
Significant changes to the supply chain are those
that can cause or contribute to significant economic,
environmental, and social impacts.

Core

Examples of significant changes can include:
•

moving parts of the supply chain from one country
to another;

•

changing the structure of the supply chain, such
as the outsourcing of a significant part of an
organization’s activities.

Disclosure 102-11
Precautionary Principle or approach
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-11

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach.

Guidance
Disclosure 102-11 can include an organization’s approach
to risk management in operational planning, or when
developing and introducing new products.
Background
The precautionary approach was introduced by the
United Nations in Principle 15 of ‘The Rio Declaration
on Environment and Development’. It states: ‘In order
to protect the environment, the precautionary

12

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

approach shall be widely applied by States according
to their capabilities. Where there are threats of
serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific
certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing
cost-effective measures to prevent environmental
degradation.’ Applying the Precautionary Principle
can help an organization to reduce or to avoid negative
impacts on the environment. See reference 13 in the
References section.

Section 1: Organizational profile

Core

Disclosure 102-12
External initiatives
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-12

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.	A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles,
or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses.

Reporting recommendations
1.4

Core

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-12, the reporting organization should:
1.4.1

include the date of adoption, the countries or operations where applied, and the range of
stakeholders involved in the development and governance of these initiatives;

1.4.2

differentiate between non-binding, voluntary initiatives and those with which the organization
has an obligation to comply.

Disclosure 102-13
Membership of associations
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-13

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.	A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international
advocacy organizations.

Reporting recommendations
1.5 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-13, the reporting organization should include
memberships maintained at the organizational level in associations or organizations in which it holds a position
on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine
membership dues, or views its membership as strategic.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

13

2. Strategy
These disclosures provide an overview of an organization’s strategy with respect to sustainability, in order to
provide context for subsequent, more detailed reporting using other GRI Standards. The strategy section can
draw on information provided in other parts of the report, but is intended to give insight on strategic issues
rather than to summarize the content of the report.

Core

Disclosure 102-14
Statement from senior decision-maker
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-14

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.	A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair,
or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and
its strategy for addressing sustainability.
Reporting recommendations
2.1 	 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-14, the reporting organization should include:
2.1.1 	the overall vision and strategy for the short-term, medium-term, and long-term, with respect
to managing the significant economic, environmental, and social impacts that the organization
causes, contributes to, or that are directly linked to its activities, products or services as a result
of relationships with others (such as suppliers and persons or organizations in local communities);
2.1.2 	strategic priorities and key topics for the short and medium-term with respect to sustainability,
including observance of internationally-recognized standards and how such standards relate to
long-term organizational strategy and success;
2.1.3 	broader trends (such as macroeconomic or political) affecting the organization and influencing
its sustainability priorities;
2.1.4

key events, achievements, and failures during the reporting period;

2.1.5 	views on performance with respect to targets;
2.1.6 	outlook on the organization’s main challenges and targets for the next year and goals for the
coming 3–5 years;
2.1.7

other items pertaining to the organization’s strategic approach.

Guidance
See references 14, 15 and 16 in the References section.

14

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 2: Strategy

Disclosure 102-15
Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-15

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.

Reporting recommendations
2.2

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-15, the reporting organization should include:
2.2.1 	a description of its significant economic, environmental and social impacts, and associated challenges
and opportunities. This includes the effects on stakeholders and their rights as defined by national
laws and relevant internationally-recognized standards;
2.2.2

the range of reasonable expectations and interests of the organization’s stakeholders;

2.2.3

an explanation of the approach to prioritizing these challenges and opportunities;

2.2.4 	key conclusions about progress in addressing these topics and related performance in the reporting
period, including an assessment of reasons for underperformance or overperformance;
2.2.5

a description of the main processes in place to address performance, and relevant changes;

2.2.6 	the impact of sustainability trends, risks, and opportunities on the long-term prospects and financial
performance of the organization;
2.2.7

information relevant to financial stakeholders or that could become so in the future;

2.2.8 	a description of the most important risks and opportunities for the organization arising from
sustainability trends;
2.2.9 	prioritization of key economic, environmental, and social topics as risks and opportunities
according to their relevance for long-term organizational strategy, competitive position, qualitative,
and, if possible, quantitative financial value drivers;
2.2.10 	table(s) summarizing targets, performance against targets, and lessons learned for the current
reporting period;
2.2.11 	table(s) summarizing targets for the next reporting period and medium-term objectives and goals
(i.e., 3–5 years) related to key risks and opportunities;
2.2.12 	a description of governance mechanisms in place specifically to manage these risks and opportunities,
and identification of other related risks and opportunities.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

15

3. Ethics and integrity
In this section, the term ‘business partner’ is used in relation to both disclosures. In the context of this GRI
Standard, 'business partners' include, among others, suppliers, agents, lobbyists and other intermediaries,
joint venture and consortia partners, governments, customers, and clients.

Core

Disclosure 102-16
Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-16

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior.

Reporting recommendations
3.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-16, the reporting organization should
provide additional information about its values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior, including:
3.1.1

how they were developed and approved;

3.1.2 	whether training on them is given regularly to all and new governance body members, workers
performing the organization’s activities, and business partners;
3.1.3	whether they need to be read and signed regularly by all and new governance body members, workers
performing the organization’s activities, and business partners;
3.1.4

whether any executive-level positions maintain responsibility for them;

3.1.5 	whether they are available in different languages to reach all governance body members,
workers performing the organization’s activities, business partners, and other stakeholders.
Guidance
Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior
can include codes of conduct and ethics. The highest
governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in
the development, approval, and updating of value
statements is reported under Disclosure 102-26.

16

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 3: Ethics and integrity

Disclosure 102-17
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. A description of internal and external mechanisms for:

Disclosure

102-17

		

i.

seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity;

		

ii. reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity.

Guidance
•

Examples of elements that can be described include:

Background

•

Who is assigned the overall responsibility for the
mechanisms to seek advice about and report on
behavior;

•

Whether any mechanisms are independent of
the organization;

•

Whether and how workers performing the
organization’s activities, business partners,
and other stakeholders are informed of the
mechanisms;

An organization can provide means for stakeholders
to seek advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and
organizational integrity, or to report concerns about
these matters. These means can include escalating issues
through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms,
and hotlines.

•

Whether training on them is given to workers
performing the organization’s activities and business
partners;

•

The availability and accessibility of the mechanisms
to workers performing the organization’s activities
and business partners, such as the total number
of hours per day, days per week, and availability in
different languages;

•

Whether requests for advice and concerns are
treated confidentially;

•

Whether the mechanisms can be used
anonymously;

•

The total number of requests for advice received,
their type, and the percentage that were answered
during the reporting period;

•

The total number of concerns reported, the type
of misconduct reported, and the percentage of
concerns that were addressed, resolved, or found
to be unsubstantiated during the reporting period;

•

Whether the organization has a non-retaliation
policy;

•

The process through which concerns are
investigated;

•

The level of satisfaction of those who used the
mechanisms.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

17

4. Governance
The disclosures in this section give an overview of:
•

the governance structure and its composition;

•

the role of the highest governance body in setting the organization’s purpose, values, and strategy;

•

the competencies and performance evaluation of the highest governance body;

•

the role of the highest governance body in risk management;

•

the role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting;

•

the role of the highest governance body in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance;

•

remuneration and incentives.

The following terms, which are defined in the GRI Standards Glossary, apply to the disclosures in this section:

Core

•

highest governance body

•

senior executive

•

two-tier board system

Disclosure 102-18
Governance structure
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-18

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body.
b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics.

Disclosure 102-19
Delegating authority
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-19

18

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest
governance body to senior executives and other employees.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-20
Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,
and social topics
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-20

a. 	Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with
responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics.
b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body.

Disclosure 102-21
Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,
and social topics
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-21

a. 	Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic,
environmental, and social topics.
b. 	If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is delegated and how the resulting feedback is
provided to the highest governance body.

Disclosure 102-22
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by:
		

i.

executive or non-executive;

		 ii. independence;
Disclosure

102-22

		

iii. tenure on the governance body;

		

iv.	number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the
nature of the commitments;

		 v.

gender;

		

vi. membership of under-represented social groups;

		

vii. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics;

		 viii. stakeholder representation.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

19

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-23
Chair of the highest governance body
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-23

a. 	Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the organization.
b. 	If the chair is also an executive officer, describe his or her function within the organization’s
management and the reasons for this arrangement.

Disclosure 102-24
Nominating and selecting the highest governance body
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees.

Disclosure

102-24

20

b. 	Criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including whether
and how:
		 i.

stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved;

		

ii. diversity is considered;

		

iii. independence is considered;

		

iv.	expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics
are considered.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-25
Conflicts of interest
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
and managed.
Disclosure

102-25

b. 	Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum:
		

i.

Cross-board membership;

		

ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders;

		

iii. Existence of controlling shareholder;

		

iv.	Related party disclosures.

Reporting recommendations
4.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-25, the reporting organization should align
the definition of controlling shareholder to the definition used for the purpose of the organization’s
consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
Guidance
See reference 11 in the References section.

Disclosure 102-26
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,
and strategy
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-26

a. 	Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and
updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies,
and goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics.

Disclosure 102-27
Collective knowledge of highest governance body
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-27

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge
of economic, environmental, and social topics.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

21

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-28
Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance
of economic, environmental, and social topics.
Disclosure

102-28

b. 	Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency.
c. 	Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.
d. 	Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with
respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum,
changes in membership and organizational practice.

Disclosure 102-29
Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social
impacts
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-29

a. 	Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social
topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including its role in the implementation of
due diligence processes.
b. 	Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s
identification and management of economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts,
risks, and opportunities.

Guidance
See references 11, 14, 15 and 16 in the References section.

Disclosure 102-30
Effectiveness of risk management processes
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-30

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk
management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics.

Guidance
See references 11, 14, 15 and 16 in the References section.

22

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-31
Review of economic, environmental, and social topics
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-31

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social topics
and their impacts, risks, and opportunities.

Guidance
See references 11, 14, 15 and 16 in the References section.

Disclosure 102-32
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-32

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s
sustainability report and ensures that all material topics are covered.

Disclosure 102-33
Communicating critical concerns
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-33

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

23

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-34
Nature and total number of critical concerns
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-34

a. 	Total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest
governance body.
b. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns.

Guidance
When the exact nature of concerns is sensitive due
to regulatory or legal restrictions, this disclosure
can be limited to the information that the reporting
organization is able to provide without jeopardizing
confidentiality. For more information on reasons for
omission, see GRI 101: Foundation.

24

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-35
Remuneration policies
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the following
types of remuneration:
Disclosure

102-35

		

i.	Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses,
and deferred or vested shares;

		

ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments;

		 iii. Termination payments;
		 iv. Clawbacks;
		

v.	Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution
rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees.

b. 	How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’s
and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics.

Reporting recommendations
4.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-35, the reporting organization should,
if performance-related pay is used, describe:
4.2.1 	how remuneration and incentive-related pay for senior executives are designed to reward longer-term
performance;
4.2.2 	how performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’s and
senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics for the reporting period
and the period ahead.
4.3 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-35, the reporting organization should, if
termination payments are used, explain whether:
4.3.1 	notice periods for governance body members and senior executives are different from those for
other employees;
4.3.2 	termination payments for governance body members and senior executives are different from those
for other employees;
4.3.3 	any payments other than those related to the notice period are paid to departing governance body
members and senior executives;
4.3.4

any mitigation clauses are included in the termination arrangements.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

25

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-36
Process for determining remuneration
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-36

a. 	Process for determining remuneration.
b. 	Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether
they are independent of management.
c. 	Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants have with the organization.

Disclosure 102-37
Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

102-37

26

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration.
b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-38
Annual total compensation ratio
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-38

a. 	Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each
country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees
(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
4.4 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-38, the reporting organization shall,
for each country of significant operations:
4.4.1 	identify the highest-paid individual for the reporting period, as defined by total
compensation;
4.4.2 	calculate the median annual total compensation for all employees, except the highestpaid individual;
4.4.3 	calculate the ratio of the annual total compensation of the highest-paid individual to
the median annual total compensation for all employees.
Reporting recommendations
4.5

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-38, the reporting organization should:
4.5.1	for each country of significant operations, define and report the composition of the annual total
compensation for the highest-paid individual and for all employees as follows:

		

4.5.1.1

List types of compensation included in the calculation;

		

4.5.1.2

Specify whether full-time and part-time employees are included in this calculation;

		

4.5.1.3 	Specify whether full-time equivalent pay rates are used for each part-time employee in
this calculation;

		

4.5.1.4 	Specify which operations or countries are included, if the organization chooses to not
consolidate this ratio for the entire organization;

4.5.2 	depending on the organization’s remuneration policies and availability of data, consider the following
components for the calculation:
		

4.5.2.1

Base salary: guaranteed, short-term, and non-variable cash compensation;

		

4.5.2.2	Cash compensation: sum of base salary + cash allowances + bonuses + commissions +
cash profit-sharing + other forms of variable cash payments;

		

4.5.2.3 	Direct compensation: sum of total cash compensation + total fair value of all annual longterm incentives, such as stock option awards, restricted stock shares or units, performance
stock shares or units, phantom stock shares, stock appreciation rights, and long-term
cash awards.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

27

Section 4: Governance

Disclosure 102-39
Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

102-39

a. 	Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid
individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual
total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
4.6 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-39, the reporting organization shall,
for each country of significant operations:
4.6.1 	identify the highest-paid individual for the reporting period, as defined by total
compensation;
4.6.2 	calculate the percentage increase in the highest-paid individual’s compensation from prior
period to the reporting period;
4.6.3 	calculate median annual total compensation for all employees except the highest-paid
individual;
4.6.4 	calculate the percentage increase of the median annual total compensation from the
previous reporting period to the current reporting period;
4.6.5 	calculate the ratio of the annual total compensation percentage increase of the highest-paid
individual to the median annual total compensation percentage increase for all employees.
Reporting recommendations
4.7

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-39, the reporting organization should:
4.7.1 	for each country of significant operations, define and report the composition of the annual total
compensation for the highest-paid individual and for all employees as follows:

		

4.7.1.1

List types of compensation included in the calculation;

		

4.7.1.2

Specify whether full-time and part-time employees are included in this calculation;

		

4.7.1.3 	Specify whether full-time equivalent pay rates are used for each part-time employee in
this calculation;

		

4.7.1.4 	Specify which operations or countries are included, if the organization chooses to not
consolidate this ratio for the entire organization;

4.7.2 	depending on the organization’s remuneration policies and availability of data, consider the following
components for the calculation:

28

		

4.7.2.1

Base salary: guaranteed, short-term, and non-variable cash compensation;

		

4.7.2.2 	Cash compensation: sum of base salary + cash allowances + bonuses + commissions +
cash profit-sharing + other forms of variable cash payments;

		

4.7.2.3	Direct compensation: sum of total cash compensation + total fair value of all annual
long-term incentives, such as stock option awards, restricted stock shares or units,
performance stock shares or units, phantom stock shares, stock appreciation rights,
and long-term cash awards.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

5. Stakeholder engagement
These disclosures give an overview of an organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. They are
not limited to engagement that was conducted for the purposes of preparing the report. For additional
guidance on stakeholder engagement, see the Stakeholder Inclusiveness principle in GRI 101: Foundation.

Core

Disclosure 102-40
List of stakeholder groups
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-40

a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.

Guidance
Examples of stakeholder groups are:
•

civil society

•

customers

•

employees and workers who are not employees

•

trade unions

•

local communities

•

shareholders and providers of capital

•

suppliers

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

29

Section 5: Stakeholder engagement

Core

Disclosure 102-41
Collective bargaining agreements
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-41

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Reporting recommendations
5.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-41, the reporting organization should use
data from Disclosure 102-7 as the basis for calculating the percentage.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 102-41
This disclosure asks for the percentage of employees
covered by collective bargaining agreements. It does not
ask for the percentage of employees belonging to trade
unions.
Collective bargaining refers to all negotiations
which take place between one or more employers
or employers' organizations, on the one hand, and
one or more workers' organizations (trade unions),
on the other, for determining working conditions and
terms of employment or for regulating relations
between employers and workers.1 Therefore,
a collective bargaining agreement represents a
form of joint decision-making concerning the
organization’s operations.

By definition, collective bargaining agreements are
obligations (often legally binding) that the organization
has undertaken. The organization is expected to
understand the coverage of the agreement (the
workers to whom it is obligated to apply the terms
of the agreement).
Collective agreements can be made at various levels
and for categories and groups of workers. Collective
agreements can be at the level of the organization; at
the industry level, in countries where that is the practice;
or at both. Collective agreements can cover specific
groups of workers; for example, those performing a
specific activity or working at a specific location.
See references 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 in the
References section.

1 This definition is based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

30

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 5: Stakeholder engagement

Core

Disclosure 102-42
Identifying and selecting stakeholders
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-42

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage.

Reporting recommendations
5.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-42, the reporting organization should describe
the process for:

Core

5.2.1

defining its stakeholder groups;

5.2.2

determining the groups with which to engage and not to engage.

Disclosure 102-43
Approach to stakeholder engagement
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-43

a. 	The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement
by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was
undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.

Guidance
Methods of stakeholder engagement can include
surveys (such as supplier, customer, or worker surveys),
focus groups, community panels, corporate advisory
panels, written communication, management or union
structures, collective bargaining agreements, and other
mechanisms.

For many organizations, customers are a relevant
stakeholder group. As well as measuring an
organization’s sensitivity to its customers’ needs and
preferences, customer satisfaction or dissatisfaction can
give insight into the degree to which the organization
considers the needs of stakeholders.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

31

Section 5: Stakeholder engagement

Core

Disclosure 102-44
Key topics and concerns raised
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-44

a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including:
		

i.	how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through
its reporting;

		

ii.	the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.

Guidance
As part of the key topics and concerns raised by
stakeholders, this disclosure can include the results
or key conclusions of customer surveys (based on
statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the
reporting period.

32

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

These surveys can indicate customer satisfaction
and dissatisfaction relating to:
•

the organization as a whole

•

a major product or service category

•

significant locations of operation

6. Reporting practice
These disclosures give an overview of the process that an organization has followed to define the content of its
sustainability report. They also review the process it followed to identify its material topics and their Boundaries,
along with any changes or restatements. Moreover, they provide basic information about the report, the claims
made about the use of the GRI Standards, the GRI content index, and the organization’s approach to seeking
external assurance.

Core

Disclosure 102-45
Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-45

a. 	A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or
equivalent documents.
b.	Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent
documents is not covered by the report.

Guidance
An organization can report Disclosure 102-45 by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated
financial statements or equivalent documents.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

33

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-46
Defining report content and topic Boundaries
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-46

a. 	An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries.
b.	An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining
report content.
6.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-46, the reporting organization shall
include an explanation of how the Materiality principle was applied to identify material topics,
including any assumptions made.
Reporting recommendations
6.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-46, the reporting organization should include
an explanation of:
6.2.1

the steps taken to define the content of the report and to define the topic Boundaries;

6.2.2 	at which steps in the process each of the Reporting Principles for defining report content
was applied;
6.2.3

assumptions and subjective judgements made in the process;

6.2.4 	challenges the organization encountered when applying the Reporting Principles for defining
report content.
Guidance
The four Reporting Principles for defining report content
are: Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context,
Materiality, and Completeness. Together, these Principles
help an organization decide which content to include in
the report by considering the organization’s activities,
impacts, and the substantive expectations and interests
of its stakeholders.
This disclosure asks for an explanation of how the
organization has defined its report content and topic
Boundaries, and how these four Principles have been
implemented. This explanation also requires a specific
description of how the Materiality principle has been
applied, including how material topics were identified
based on the two dimensions of the principle.

34

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

This explanation can also include:
•

the steps taken to identify relevant topics
(i.e., those that potentially merit inclusion in
the report);

•

how the relative priority of material topics was
determined.

For more information on the Reporting Principles for
defining report content, see GRI 101: Foundation.
The description of the topic Boundary for each material
topic is reported under Disclosure 103-1 in GRI 103:
Management Approach.

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-47
List of material topics
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-47

a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content.

Guidance
Material topics are those that an organization has
prioritized for inclusion in the report. This prioritization
exercise is carried out using the Stakeholder Inclusiveness
and the Materiality principles. The Materiality principle
identifies material topics based on the following two
dimensions:

For more information on the Stakeholder Inclusiveness
and Materiality principles, see GRI 101: Foundation.
The explanation of why each topic is material is
reported under Disclosure 103-1 in GRI 103:
Management Approach.

The significance of the organization’s economic,
environmental, and social impacts;
Their substantive influence on the assessments and
decisions of stakeholders.

Core

Disclosure 102-48
Restatements of information
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-48

a.	The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for
such restatements.

Guidance
Restatements can result from:
•

mergers or acquisitions

•

change of base years or periods

•

nature of business

•

measurement methods

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

35

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-49
Changes in reporting
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-49

Core

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a.	Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic
Boundaries.

Disclosure 102-50
Reporting period
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-50

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Reporting period for the information provided.

Guidance
The reporting period can be, for example, the fiscal or calendar year.

Core

Disclosure 102-51
Date of most recent report
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-51

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report.

Guidance
If this is the first report prepared by the reporting organization, the response to this disclosure can state this.

36

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-52
Reporting cycle
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-52

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Reporting cycle.

Guidance
The reporting cycle can be, for example, annual or

Core

biennial.

Disclosure 102-53
Contact point for questions regarding the report
Reporting requirements

Disclosure

102-53

Core

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.

Disclosure 102-54
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

102-54

a. 	The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI
Standards, either:
		 i.
		

‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’;

ii.	‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’.

Guidance
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards can choose one of two options
(Core or Comprehensive), depending on the degree to
which the GRI Standards have been applied. For each
option, there is a corresponding claim, or statement of
use, that the organization is required to include in the
report. These claims have set wording.

For more information on making claims related to the
use of the GRI Standards, see Section 3 in GRI 101:
Foundation.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

37

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-55
GRI content index
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures
included in the report.

Disclosure

102-55

b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include:
		

i.

the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards);

		

ii.	the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within
the report or in other published materials;

		

iii.	if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure
cannot be made.

6.3 	When reporting the GRI content index as specified in Disclosure 102-55, the reporting
organization shall:
6.3.1

include the words ‘GRI Content Index’ in the title;

6.3.2

present the complete GRI content index in one location;

6.3.3 	include in the report a link or reference to the GRI content index, if it is not provided in
the report itself;
6.3.4 	for each GRI Standard used, include the title and publication year (e.g., GRI 102: General
Disclosures 2016);
6.3.5	include any additional material topics reported on which are not covered by the GRI
Standards, including page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found.
Reporting recommendations
6.4 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-55, the reporting organization should include
in the GRI content index the title of each disclosure made (e.g., Name of the organization), in addition to
the number (e.g., 102-1).
Guidance
The content index required by this disclosure is a
navigation tool that specifies which GRI Standards
have been used, which disclosures have been made,
and where these disclosures can be found in the report
or other location. It enables stakeholders to gain a quick
overview of the report and facilitates easy navigation
across reports. Any organization making a claim that its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards is required to include a GRI content index in
its report or provide a link to where the content index
can be found. See Table 1 in GRI 101: Foundation for
more information.
The disclosure number refers to the unique numeric
identifier for each disclosure in the GRI Standards
(e.g., 102-53).

38

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

The page numbers (when the report is PDF-based)
or URLs (when the report is web-based) referenced
in the content index are expected to be specific
enough to direct stakeholders to the information for
the disclosures made. If a disclosure is spread over
multiple pages or URLs, the content index references
all pages and URLs where the information can be found.
See ‘Reporting required disclosures using references’
in GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
References to webpages and documents other than the
report, such as the annual financial report or a policy
document, can be included in the content index as long
as they have a specific page number or a direct URL to
the webpage.

Section 6: Reporting practice
Disclosure 102-55
Continued
Material topics that are not covered by the GRI
Standards but are included in the report are also
required to be in the content index. See ‘Reporting
on material topics’ in GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to report on these topics, and
Table 1 of this Standard for an example of how to
include these topics in the context index.

See clause 3.2 in GRI 101: Foundation, which specifies
the required information to provide when giving reasons
for omission.
The organization can use Table 1 of this Standard as one
possible format to prepare the GRI content index.

While in principle it is up to the reporting organization
to add direct answers to the content index, too much
text can diminish the clarity and navigation of the index.
Additional content can also be included in the content
index, for example to show the connection with other
reporting standards or frameworks. Such additions can
be made to add clarity for stakeholders, as long as they
do not compromise the readability of the content index.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

39

Table 1
Example of a GRI content index

GRI Content Index
GRI Standard
[include the title and
publication year for each of
the GRI Standards used to
prepare the report]

Disclosure
[include the number and title for
each disclosure made]

Page number(s)
and/or URL(s)

Omission
[see GRI 101: Foundation
for information on
reasons for omission]

GRI 101: Foundation 2016
[GRI 101 does not include any disclosures]
General Disclosures
[the list of general disclosures made, based on whether the report has been prepared in accordance with
the Core or Comprehensive option]
GRI 102:
General Disclosures
2016

102-1 Name of the
organization

Page 3

[this disclosure
cannot be omitted]

102-2 Activities, brands,
products, and services

Pages 4-5 and
corporate website
[direct hyperlink]

[this disclosure
cannot be omitted]

"

"

"

"

"

"

Material topics
[the list of material topics included in the report, as reported in Disclosure 102-47. The reporting organization is required
to include any material topics reported on which are not covered by the GRI Standards]
Emissions [example of topic covered by the topic-specific Standards]
GRI 103:
Management Approach
2016

103-1 Explanation of the
material topic and its
Boundaries

Page 20

[this disclosure
cannot be omitted]

103-2 The management
approach and its components

Page 21

–

"
GRI 305: Emissions 2016

"

"

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG
emissions

"

Page 22

"

"

–

305-2 Energy indirect
(Scope 2) GHG emissions

"

"

Information unavailable
for 305-2 [description of
the steps being taken to
obtain the data and the
expected timeframe for
doing so]

"

"

"

"

"

"

Freedom of speech [example of topic not covered by the topic-specific Standards]
GRI 103:
Management Approach
2016

103-1 Explanation of the
material topic and its
Boundaries

Page 28

[this disclosure
cannot be omitted]

103-2 The management
approach and its components

Page 29

–

"
[not applicable. If the
material topic is not covered
by an existing GRI Standard,
it is recommended, but not
required, to report other
appropriate disclosures]
40

[title of topic-specific disclosure]

"

"

"

"

"

Page 30

"

"

"

"

–

"

"

Section 6: Reporting practice

Core

Disclosure 102-56
External assurance
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external
assurance for the report.
b. 	If the report has been externally assured:

Disclosure

102-56

		

i.	A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included
in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what
has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards
used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process;

		

ii.	The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider;

		

iii.	Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in
seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report.

Guidance
Background
An organization can use a variety of approaches to
enhance the credibility of its report.

necessarily extend to those controls that would be
required to address the reliability of information in the
sustainability report.

The use of external assurance for sustainability reports
is advised in addition to any internal resources, but it is
not required in order to make a claim that a report has
been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards.

An organization can also establish and maintain an
internal audit function as part of its processes for risk
management and for managing and reporting
information.

The GRI Standards use the term ‘external assurance’
to refer to activities designed to result in published
conclusions on the quality of the report and the
information (whether it be qualitative or quantitative)
contained within it. External assurance can also refer
to activities designed to result in published conclusions
about systems or processes (such as the process for
defining report content, including the application of the
Materiality principle or the stakeholder engagement
process). This is different from activities designed to
assess or validate the quality or level of performance
of an organization, such as issuing performance
certifications or compliance assessments.

An organization can also convene a stakeholder panel
to review its overall approach to sustainability reporting
or to provide advice on the content of its sustainability
report.

In addition to external assurance, an organization can
have systems of internal controls in place. These internal
systems are also important to the overall integrity and
credibility of a report.
In some jurisdictions, corporate governance codes
can require directors to inquire, and then, if satisfied,
to confirm in the annual report the adequacy of an
organization’s internal controls. Generally, management
is responsible for designing and implementing these
internal controls. The confirmation in the annual report
might relate only to such internal controls that are
necessary for financial reporting purposes, and do not

Guidance for Disclosure 102-56
An organization can use a variety of approaches to
seek external assurance, such as the use of professional
assurance providers, or other external groups or
persons. Regardless of the specific approach, it is
expected that external assurance is conducted by
competent groups or persons who follow professional
standards for assurance, or who apply systematic,
documented, and evidence-based processes
(‘assurance providers’).
Overall, for external assurance of reports that have used
the GRI Standards, it is expected that the assurance
providers:
•

are independent from the organization and
therefore able to reach and publish an objective and
impartial opinion or conclusions about the report;

•

are demonstrably competent in both the subject
matter and assurance practices;

•

apply quality control procedures to the assurance
engagement;

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

41

Section 6: Reporting practice
Disclosure 102-56
Continued

42

•

conduct the engagement in a manner that is
systematic, documented, evidence-based, and
characterized by defined procedures;

•

assess whether the report provides a reasonable
and balanced presentation of performance –
considering the veracity of data in the report
as well as the overall selection of content;

•

assess the extent to which the report preparer
has applied the GRI Standards in the course of
reaching its conclusions;

•

issue a written report that is publicly available
and includes: an opinion or set of conclusions;
a description of the responsibilities of the report
preparer and the assurance provider; and a
summary of the work performed, which explains
the nature of the assurance conveyed by the
assurance report.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

The language used in external assurance reports,
statements, or opinions can be technical and is
not always accessible. Thus, it is expected that
information for this disclosure is included in
broadly-accessible language.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 87, ‘Freedom of Association and Protection
of the Right to Organise Convention’, 1948.
2.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 98, ‘Right to Organise and Collective
Bargaining Convention’, 1949.
3. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 135, ‘Workers’ Representatives Convention’,
1971.
4. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.
5. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration, ‘Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work’, 1998.
6. 	International Labour Organization (ILO), Key Indicators of the Labour Market (KILM),
http://www.ilo.org/global/statistics-and-databases/research-and-databases/kilm/lang--en/index.htm,
accessed on 1 September 2016.
7. 	International Labour Organization (ILO), LABORSTA Internet, http://laborsta.ilo.org/, accessed
on 1 September 2016.
8. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 91, ‘Collective Agreements
Recommendation’, 1951.
9. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 163, ‘Collective Bargaining
Recommendation’, 1981.
10.	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Resolution concerning the International Classification
of Status in Employment (ICSE)’, 1993.
11. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Principles, ‘Principles of
Corporate Governance’, 2004.
12. 	United Nations (UN), Composition of macro geographical (continental) regions, geographical
sub-regions, and selected economic and other groupings,
http://unstats.un.org/unsd/methods/m49/m49regin.htm, accessed on 1 September 2016.
13.	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development’, 1992.
14. 	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
15. 	United Nations (UN), ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights’,
2008.
16.	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the
Issue of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises,
John Ruggie, 2011.

GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016

43

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-056-6

44

GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH
2016

GRI

103

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 103: Management Approach

5

General requirements for reporting the management approach
Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components
Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach

5
6
8
11

References

12

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 103: Management Approach sets out reporting requirements about the approach
an organization uses to manage a material topic. This Standard can be used by an
organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the
following documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms defined in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
this Standard (GRI 103: Management Approach),
to report the management approach for the topic.
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims
There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 103: Management Approach, to report its
management approach for each material topic.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font and
indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to be
read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
Management approach disclosures enable an
organization to explain how it manages the economic,
environmental and social impacts related to material
topics. This provides narrative information about how
the organization identifies, analyzes, and responds to
its actual and potential impacts.
Disclosure about an organization’s management
approach also provides context for the information
reported using topic-specific Standards (series 200,
300 and 400). This can be especially useful for
explaining quantitative information to stakeholders.
The reporting requirements in this Standard have
a generic form, and can be applied to a wide variety
of topics. An organization preparing a report in
accordance with the GRI Standards is required to
report its management approach for each material
topic using this Standard. Topic-specific Standards
can also contain additional reporting requirements,
reporting recommendations and/or guidance for
reporting management approach information
about the topic in question.

4

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

GRI 103:
Management Approach

This Standard includes general requirements and disclosures for reporting the
management approach for material topics. These are set out in the Standard
as follows:
• General requirements for reporting the management approach
• Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
• Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components
• Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach

General requirements for reporting the management
approach
Reporting requirements
1.1 	If management approach disclosures are combined for a group of material topics, the reporting
organization shall state which topics are covered by each disclosure.
1.2

If there is no management approach for a material topic, the reporting organization shall describe:
1.2.1 	any plans to implement a management approach; or
1.2.2

the reasons for not having a management approach.

Guidance
Guidance for clause 1.1
If an organization’s management approach or its
components, such as policies or specific actions,
apply to more than one material topic, the narrative
description does not need to be repeated for each
topic. Such information can be provided once in a
report, with a clear explanation of the topics it covers.

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

5

Disclosure 103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
Reporting requirements
For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. An explanation of why the topic is material.
b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of:
Disclosure

103-1

		

i.

where the impacts occur;

		

ii.	the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the
organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked
to the impacts through its business relationships.

c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 103-1-a
Material topics are those that reflect an organization’s
significant economic, environmental and social impacts;
or that substantively influence the assessments and
decisions of stakeholders. The list of material topics
is reported in Disclosure 102-47 of GRI 102: General
Disclosures. For more information on identifying material
topics, see GRI 101: Foundation.
The explanation of why the topic is material can include:
•

a description of the significant impacts identified
and the reasonable expectations and interests of
stakeholders regarding the topic;

•

a description of the process, such as due diligence,
that the organization used to identify the impacts
related to the topic.

business partners, entities in its value chain, and any
other non-State or State entity directly linked to its
business operations, products or services.2
The topic Boundary is the description of where the
impacts for a material topic occur, and the organization’s
involvement with these impacts.
When describing ‘where the impacts occur’, the
organization can identify the entities where impacts
occur, which can be entities in the organization,3
and/or entities with which it has a business relationship,
such as entities in its value chain. The entities can be
grouped based on their attributes, such as their type,
location, or position in the value chain. Examples include
‘customers using washing machines manufactured by the
organization’, ‘chemical suppliers in region X’, or ‘trading
subsidiaries of the organization’.

Guidance for Disclosure 103-1-b

Example of impacts that occur in the organization:

Organizations might be involved with impacts
either through their own activities or as a result of
their business relationships with other entities. An
organization preparing a report in accordance with
the GRI Standards is expected to report not only on
impacts it causes, but also on impacts it contributes
to, and impacts that are directly linked to its activities,
products or services through a business relationship.1
In the context of this GRI Standard, an organization’s
business relationships can include relationships with

•

The subsidiary of an organization operates in a
water-stressed area and uses large amounts of
water, which has significantly impacted on the
availability of water for the local communities in
the area. In this case, the description of the topic
Boundary would identify the specific subsidiary
(where the impacts occur) and the fact that the
impact is caused by the activities of this subsidiary
(the organization’s involvement).

1 These concepts are based on the following instruments:
• Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
•	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect
and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
2 Source: United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and
Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
3 These are the entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents, as reported under Disclosure
102-45 of GRI 102: General Disclosures.

6

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

Disclosure 103-1
Continued
Example of impacts that occur as a result of
the organization’s business relationships with
other entities:
•

An organization discovers through its due
diligence that a number of its suppliers in region
X do not uphold basic health and safety standards
at the factories where its products are being
manufactured. The organization has identified
potential significant impacts on the health and
safety of its suppliers’ workers. In this case, the
description of the topic Boundary would identify
the organization’s suppliers or group of suppliers
in region X manufacturing its products (where
the impacts occur), and the fact that the impacts
are directly linked to the organization’s products
via its relationship with those suppliers (the
organization’s involvement).

In situations where the organization does not have
leverage4 over the entities that cause or contribute
to these impacts, the organization is still expected
to report on these impacts and how it has responded
to them.
The topic Boundary can vary by topic.
Guidance for Disclosure 103-1-c
In some cases, if the Boundary of a topic extends
beyond the organization, it may not be possible to
report some topic-specific disclosures. For example,
if the Boundary for a topic includes part of the supply
chain, the organization might not be able to access
the necessary information from suppliers. In these
cases, to prepare a report in accordance with the
GRI Standards, the organization is still required to
report its management approach for the topic, but
can use the recognized reasons for omission for topicspecific disclosures. See GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on reasons for omission.

4 Leverage is considered to exist where the organization has the ability to effect change in the wrongful practices of an entity that causes a harm.
Source: United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and
Remedy” Framework’, 2011.

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

7

Disclosure 103-2
The management approach and its components
Reporting requirements
For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic.
b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach.
c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component:
Disclosure

103-2

		 i.

Policies

		 ii. Commitments
		

iii. Goals and targets

		 iv. Responsibilities
		 v.

Resources

		 vi. Grievance mechanisms
		

vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 103-2

Guidance for Disclosure 103-2-b

The reporting organization is expected to provide
sufficient information for report users to understand its
approach to managing the material topic and its impacts.

The purpose of the management approach can be to
avoid, mitigate, or remediate negative impacts, or to
enhance positive impacts.

Reporting recommendations
1.3 	When reporting on policies as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-i, the reporting organization should provide
an abstract, summary, or link to the publicly-available policies that cover the topic, as well as the following
information:
1.3.1

The range and location of entities covered by the policies;

1.3.2 	An identification of the person or committee responsible for approving the policies;
1.3.3

Any references the policies make to international standards and widely-recognized initiatives;

1.3.4

The date of issue and last review date of the policies.

1.4 	When reporting on commitments as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-ii, the reporting organization should
provide a statement of intent to manage the impacts for the topic, or explain:
1.4.1

the organization’s position towards the topic;

1.4.2 	whether the commitment to manage the topic is based on regulatory compliance or extends
beyond it;
1.4.3

8

compliance with international standards and widely-recognized initiatives related to the topic.

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

Disclosure 103-2
Continued
1.5	When reporting on goals and targets as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-iii, the reporting organization should
provide the following information:
1.5.1

The baseline and context for goals and targets;

1.5.2

The range and location of entities included in the goals and targets;

1.5.3

The expected result (quantitative or qualitative);

1.5.4

The expected timeline for achieving each goal and target;

1.5.5 	Whether goals and targets are mandatory (based on legislation) or voluntary. If they are mandatory,
the organization should list the relevant legislation.
1.6	When reporting on responsibilities as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-iv, the reporting organization should
explain:
1.6.1

who is assigned responsibility for managing the topic;

1.6.2

whether the responsibility is linked to performance assessments or incentive mechanisms.

1.7	When reporting on resources as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-v, the reporting organization should
explain the resources allocated for managing the topic, such as financial, human or technological, as well
as the rationale for the allocation.
1.8	When reporting on grievance mechanisms as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-vi, the reporting organization
should explain for each grievance mechanism reported:
1.8.1

The ownership of the mechanism;

1.8.2

The purpose of the mechanism and its relationship to other grievance mechanisms;

1.8.3

The organization’s activities that are covered by the mechanism;

1.8.4

The intended users of the mechanism;

1.8.5

How the mechanism is managed;

1.8.6

The process to address and resolve grievances, including how decisions are made;

1.8.7

The effectiveness criteria used.

1.9	When reporting on specific actions as specified in Disclosure 103-2-c-vii, the reporting organization
should explain:
1.9.1

the range of entities covered by each of the actions and their location;

1.9.2

whether the actions are ad hoc or systemic;

1.9.3

whether the actions are short, medium, or long-term;

1.9.4

how actions are prioritized;

1.9.5 	whether the actions are part of a due diligence process and aim to avoid, mitigate, or remediate
the negative impacts with respect to the topic;
1.9.6

whether actions take international norms or standards into account.

Guidance
Guidance for clause 1.6

Guidance for clause 1.7

The disclosure of the highest governance body’s
responsibilities for economic, environmental, and
social topics is covered in Section 4 of GRI 102:
General Disclosures.

This explanation can include expenditures to
prevent, mitigate and remediate impacts. This includes,
for example, expenditures on equipment, maintenance,
operating materials and services, training and education,
external certification of management systems, research
and development, or the installation of new technologies.

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

9

Disclosure 103-2
Continued
Guidance for clause 1.8
This Standard covers grievance mechanisms that are
linked to the reporting organization. Such mechanisms
can be industry, multi-stakeholder or other collaborative
initiatives. They can also be processes established by
the organization.
Mechanisms established by the organization are referred
to as ‘operational-level’ grievance mechanisms. These
can occur at the organization level or at a lower level,
such as a site or project level.
When explaining the ownership of the mechanisms,
the organization can indicate whether the grievance
mechanism is an operational mechanism, or whether it
is a collaborative mechanism established by, or formally
involving, other organizations.
Grievance mechanisms can serve multiple purposes,
which include:
•

providing remedy when negative impacts occur;

•

helping to identify negative impacts;

•

informing the effectiveness of the organization’s
management approach.

As such, information on grievance mechanisms can also
be useful for reporting Disclosures 103-1 and 103-3 of
this Standard.
In situations where the use of the grievance
mechanism precludes access to judicial or other nonjudicial mechanisms, or can interfere with the legitimate
role of trade unions, the organization is expected to
disclose this.
The management of a grievance mechanism can depend
on whether the grievance mechanism is an operational
mechanism, or whether it involves other organizations.
The organization can disclose whether stakeholders,
including suppliers, community organizations or trade
unions, are involved in the design of the mechanism.
It can also disclose whether stakeholders have a role
in monitoring the effectiveness of the mechanism.
Effectiveness criteria can include whether the
grievance mechanism is legitimate, accessible,
predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible,
and a source of continuous learning. For operationallevel mechanisms to be effective, they are expected to
be based on engagement and dialogue. For a description
of each of these criteria, see Guiding Principle 31 in the
United Nations (UN) ‘Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights’. These effectiveness criteria can
be applied to grievance mechanisms addressing any
economic, environmental, and social topic or impact.

10

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

Where relevant, the organization can report the
following for each mechanism:
•

The total number of grievances filed through
the mechanism during the reporting period;

•

The number of grievances that were addressed
(or reviewed) during the reporting period;

•

The number of grievances that were resolved
during the reporting period;

•

The number of grievances filed through the
mechanism prior to the reporting period that
were resolved during the reporting period;

•

The number of grievances that were resolved by
remediation, and how remedy was provided.

If it will provide context on significant negative
impacts, the organization can provide a breakdown
of the number of grievances by the nature and location
of the grievance, and the party that filed the grievance
(including: employees, workers who are not employees,
and their trade unions; business partners such as
suppliers; and civil society or local communities).
Guidance for clause 1.9.6
International norms and standards include the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, the UN Protect, Respect
and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human
Rights; and the UN ‘Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights’.

Disclosure 103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
Reporting requirements
For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including:

Disclosure

103-3

		

i.

the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach;

		

ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach;

		

iii. any related adjustments to the management approach.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 103-3-a-i

Guidance for Disclosure 103-3-a-iii

Mechanisms for monitoring the effectiveness of the
management approach can include:

Adjustments to the management approach as a result
of the evaluation can include:

•

internal or external auditing or verification
(type, system, scope);

•

changes in the allocation of resources, goals,
or targets;

•

measurement systems;

•

specific actions aimed at improving performance.

•

external performance ratings;

•

benchmarking;

•

stakeholder feedback;

•

grievance mechanisms.

Guidance for Disclosure 103-3-a-ii
The explanation of these results can include:
•

disclosures from the GRI Standards or organizationspecific measurements used to report results;

•

performance against goals and targets, including key
successes and shortcomings;

•

how results are communicated;

•

challenges and gaps in the management approach;

•

any obstacles encountered, unsuccessful endeavors,
and any lessons learned in the process;

•

progress made in implementing the management
approach.

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

11

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
2. 	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
3. 	United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.
4. 	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue of
Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.

12

GRI 103: Management Approach 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
13

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-057-3

GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
2016

GRI

201

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 201: Economic Performance

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
	
Disclosure 201-2 F inancial implications and other risks and opportunities due
to climate change
Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government

5
6
6

References

13

9
11
12

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 201: Economic Performance sets out reporting requirements on the topic of economic
performance. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or
geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 201: Economic Performance is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 200 series (Economic
topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 201: Economic Performance, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders,
and on economic systems at local, national, and
global levels.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders,
and the main economic impacts of an organization
throughout society.
GRI 201 addresses the topic of economic performance.
This includes the economic value generated and
distributed (EVG&D) by an organization; its defined
benefit plan obligations; the financial assistance it receives
from any government; and the financial implications of
climate change.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to economic
performance, and how it manages them.

4

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

GRI 201:
Economic Performance

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
• Disclosure 201-2 F inancial implications and other risks and opportunities
due to climate change
• Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
• Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order to
provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach and
what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for economic performance using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures
An organization is expected to compile information for economic disclosures using figures from its audited
financial statements or from its internally-audited management accounts, whenever possible. Data can be
compiled using, for example:
•

the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), and the Interpretations developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(specific IFRS are referenced for some of the disclosures);

•

the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC);

•

national or regional standards recognized internationally for the purpose of financial reporting.

Disclosure 201-1
Direct economic value generated and distributed
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the
basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data are presented
on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting the following
basic components:
Disclosure

201-1

		

i.

Direct economic value generated: revenues;

		

ii.	Economic value distributed: operating costs, employee wages and benefits,
payments to providers of capital, payments to government by country, and
community investments;

		

iii.	Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value generated’ less ‘economic value
distributed’.

b. 	Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels,
and the criteria used for defining significance.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-1, the reporting organization shall,
if applicable, compile the EVG&D from data in the organization’s audited financial or profit and
loss (P&L) statement, or its internally audited management accounts.
Guidance

6

Background

Guidance for Disclosure 201-1

Information on the creation and distribution of economic
value provides a basic indication of how an organization
has created wealth for stakeholders. Several components
of the economic value generated and distributed
(EVG&D) also provide an economic profile of an
organization, which can be useful for normalizing other
performance figures.

Revenues

If presented in country-level detail, EVG&D can provide a
useful picture of the direct monetary value added to local
economies.

•

interest on financial loans;

•

dividends from shareholdings;

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

An organization can calculate revenues as net sales plus
revenues from financial investments and sales of assets.
Net sales can be calculated as gross sales from products
and services minus returns, discounts, and allowances.
Revenues from financial investments can include cash
received as:

Disclosure 201-1
Continued
•

royalties;

Payments to providers of capital

•

direct income generated from assets, such as
property rental.

An organization can calculate payments to providers
of capital as dividends to all shareholders, plus interest
payments made to providers of loans.

Revenues from sale of assets can include:
•

physical assets, such as property, infrastructure,
and equipment;

•

intangibles, such as intellectual property rights,
designs, and brand names.

Operating costs
An organization can calculate operating costs as cash
payments made outside the organization for materials,
product components, facilities, and services purchased.
Services purchased can include payments to
self-employed persons, temporary placement agencies
and other organizations providing services. Costs
related to workers who are not employees working
in an operational role are included as part of services
purchased, rather than under employee wages
and benefits.
Operating costs can include:
•

property rental;

•

license fees;

•

facilitation payments (since these have a clear
commercial objective);

•

royalties;

•

payments for contract workers;

•

training costs, if outside trainers are used;

•

personal protective clothing.

•

The use of facilitation payments is also addressed
in GRI 205: Anti-corruption.

Interest payments made to providers of loans can
include:
•

interest on all forms of debt and borrowings
(not only long-term debt);

•

arrears of dividends due to preferred shareholders.

Payments to government
An organization can calculate payments to governments
as all of the organization’s taxes plus related penalties
paid at the international, national, and local levels.
Organization taxes can include corporate, income,
and property.
Payments to government exclude deferred taxes,
because they may not be paid.
If operating in more than one country, the organization
can report taxes paid by country, including the definition
of segmentation used.
Community investments
Total community investments refers to actual
expenditures in the reporting period, not commitments.
An organization can calculate community investments
as voluntary donations plus investment of funds in the
broader community where the target beneficiaries are
external to the organization. Voluntary donations and
investment of funds in the broader community where
the target beneficiaries are external to the organization
can include:
•

contributions to charities, NGOs and research
institutes (unrelated to the organization’s
commercial research and development);

•

funds to support community infrastructure,
such as recreational facilities;

•

direct costs of social programs, including arts
and educational events.

Employee wages and benefits
An organization can calculate employee wages and
benefits as total payroll (including employee salaries
and amounts paid to government institutions on behalf
of employees) plus total benefits (excluding training,
costs of protective equipment or other cost items
directly related to the employee’s job function).
Amounts paid to government institutions on behalf
of employees can include employee taxes, levies, and
unemployment funds.
Total benefits can include:
•

regular contributions, such as to pensions,
insurance, company vehicles, and private health;

•

other employee support, such as housing,
interest-free loans, public transport assistance,
educational grants, and redundancy payments.

If reporting infrastructure investments, an
organization can include costs of goods and labor,
in addition to capital costs, as well as operating costs
for support of ongoing facilities or programs. An
example of support for ongoing facilities or programs
can include the organization funding the daily operations
of a public facility.
Community investments exclude legal and commercial
activities or where the purpose of the investment is
exclusively commercial (donations to political parties can
be included, but are also addressed separately in more
detail in GRI 415: Public Policy).

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

7

Disclosure 201-1
Continued
Community investments also exclude any infrastructure
investment that is driven primarily by core business
needs, or to facilitate the business operations of an
organization. Infrastructure investments driven primarily
by core business needs can include, for example,
building a road to a mine or a factory. The calculation of
investment can include infrastructure built outside the
main business activities of the organization, such as a
school or hospital for workers and their families.
See references 5, 6, 7 and 9 in the References section.

8

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

Disclosure 201-2
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate
substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure, including:
Disclosure

201-2

		

i.	a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical,
regulatory, or other;

		

ii. a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity;

		

iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken;

		

iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity;

		

v.

the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity.

2.2	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-2, if the reporting organization
does not have a system in place to calculate the financial implications or costs, or to make
revenue projections, it shall report its plans and timeline to develop the necessary systems.
Reporting recommendations
2.3 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-2, the reporting organization should report
the following additional characteristics for the identified risks and opportunities:
2.3.1 	A description of the risk or opportunity driver, such as a particular piece of legislation, or a physical
driver, such as water scarcity;
2.3.2 	The projected time frame in which the risk or opportunity is expected to have substantive
financial implications;
2.3.3 	Direct and indirect impacts (whether the impact directly affects the organization, or indirectly
affects the organization via its value chain);
2.3.4

The potential impacts generally, including increased or decreased:

		

2.3.4.1

capital and operational costs;

		

2.3.4.2

demand for products and services;

		

2.3.4.3

capital availability and investment opportunities;

2.3.5

Likelihood (the probability of the impact on the organization);

2.3.6

Magnitude of impact (if occurring, the extent to which the impact affects the organization financially).

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 201-2

Physical risks and opportunities can include:

Risk and opportunities due to climate change can be
classified as:

•

the impact of more frequent and intense storms;

•

changes in sea level, ambient temperature,
and water availability;

•

impacts on workers – such as health effects,
including heat-related illness or disease, and the
need to relocate operations.

•
•
•

physical
regulatory
other

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

9

Disclosure 201-2
Continued

10

Other risks and opportunities can include the availability
of new technologies, products, or services to address
challenges related to climate change, as well as changes in
customer behavior.

Background

Methods used to manage the risk or opportunity can
include:

As governments move to regulate activities that
contribute to climate change, organizations that
are directly or indirectly responsible for emissions
face regulatory risks and opportunities. Risks can
include increased costs or other factors impacting
competitiveness. However, limits on greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions can also create opportunities for
organizations as new technologies and markets are
created. This is especially the case for organizations that
can use or produce energy and energy-efficient products
more effectively.

•

carbon capture and storage;

•

fuel switching;

•

use of renewable and lower carbon footprint
energy;

•

improving energy efficiency;

•

flaring, venting, and fugitive emission reduction;

•

renewable energy certificates;

•

use of carbon offsets.

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

Climate change presents risks and opportunities
to organizations, their investors, and their
stakeholders.

See references 2, 3 and 4 in the References section.

Disclosure 201-3
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, the estimated value
of those liabilities.
b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities:

Disclosure

201-3

		

i.	the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the
assets that have been set aside to meet them;

		

ii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at;

		

iii. when that estimate was made.

c. 	If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy,
if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any,
by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage.
d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer.
e. 	Level of participation in retirement plans, such as participation in mandatory or voluntary
schemes, regional, or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact.

Reporting recommendations
2.4 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-3, the reporting organization should:
2.4.1 	calculate the information in accordance with the regulations and methods for relevant jurisdictions,
and report aggregated totals;
2.4.2 	use the same consolidation techniques as those applied in preparing the financial accounts of
the organization.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 201-3

Background

The structure of retirement plans offered to employees
can be based on:

When an organization provides a retirement plan for
its employees, these benefits can become a commitment
that members of the schemes plan on for their long-term
economic well-being.

•

defined benefit plans;

•

defined contribution plans;

•

other types of retirement benefits.

Different jurisdictions, such as countries, have varying
interpretations and guidance regarding calculations
used to determine plan coverage.
Note that benefit pension plans are part of the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
IAS 19 Employee Benefits, however IAS 19 covers
additional topics.
See reference 7 in the References section.

Defined benefit plans have potential implications for
employers in terms of the obligations that need to be
met. Other types of plans, such as defined contribution
plans, do not guarantee access to a retirement plan
or the quality of the benefits. Thus, the type of plan
chosen has implications for both employees and
employers. Conversely, a properly funded pension plan
can help to attract and maintain employees and support
long-term financial and strategic planning on the part
of the employer.

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

11

Disclosure 201-4
Financial assistance received from government
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government
during the reporting period, including:
		

i.

tax relief and tax credits;

		 ii. subsidies;
		
Disclosure

201-4

iii.	investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types
of grant;

		 iv. awards;
		

v.	royalty holidays;

		

vi. financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs);

		

vii. financial incentives;

		

viii.	other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for
any operation.

b. The information in 201-4-a by country.
c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure.
2.5	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-4, the reporting organization shall
identify the monetary value of financial assistance received from government through consistent
application of generally accepted accounting principles.
Guidance
Background
This disclosure provides a measure of governments’
contributions to an organization.
The significant financial assistance received from
a government, in comparison with taxes paid,
can be useful for developing a balanced picture
of the transactions between the organization
and government.
See reference 8 in the References section.

12

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.

Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
Other relevant references:
2.	Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Guidance for companies responding to the Investor CDP Information
Request, updated annually.
3.	Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), Climate Change Reporting Framework – Edition 1.1,
October 2012.
4.	Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), Climate Change Reporting Framework Boundary Update,
June 2012.
5.	International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 12 Income Taxes, 2001.
6.

International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 18 Revenues, 2001.

7.

International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 19 Employee Benefits, 2001.

8.	International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and
Disclosure of Government Assistance, 2001.
9.	International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IFRS 8 Operating Segments, 2006.

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

13

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
14

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-058-0

GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE
2016

GRI

202

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 202: Market Presence

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 202-1 R
 atios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to
local minimum wage
	
Disclosure 202-2 P
 roportion of senior management hired from the
local community

5
6

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 202: Market Presence sets out reporting requirements on the topic of market
presence. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector
or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

6
8

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, a
nd society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 202: Market Presence is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 200 series (Economic topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 202: Market Presence, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with the Standards.
Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in
this way are to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders,
and on economic systems at local, national, and global
levels. It does not focus on the financial condition of
an organization.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders,
and the main economic impacts of an organization
throughout society.
GRI 202 addresses the topic of an organization’s market
presence, covering its contribution to economic
development in the local areas or communities where it
operates. For example, this can include the organization’s
approaches to remuneration or local hiring.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to market
presence, and how it manages them.

4

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

GRI 202:
Market Presence

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 202-1 R
 atios of standard entry level wage by gender compared
to local minimum wage
• Disclosure 202-2 P
 roportion of senior management hired from the
local community

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for market presence using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures
An organization is expected to compile information for economic disclosures using figures from its audited
financial statements or from its internally-audited management accounts, whenever possible. Data can be
compiled using, for example:
•

the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), and the Interpretations developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(specific IFRS are referenced for some of the disclosures);

•

the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC);

•

national or regional standards recognized internationally for the purpose of financial reporting.

Disclosure 202-1
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local
minimum wage
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	When a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject to
minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant
locations of operation to the minimum wage.
Disclosure

202-1

b. 	When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the
organization’s activities are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules,
describe the actions taken to determine whether these workers are paid above the
minimum wage.
c. 	Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation,
by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report
which minimum wage is being used.
d. 	The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 202-1-b, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1 	use the description of the organization’s activities from Disclosure 102-2 in GRI 102:
General Disclosures;
2.1.2 	if applicable, convert the entry level wage to the same units used in the minimum wage
(e.g., hourly or monthly basis);
2.1.3 	when a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the organization’s
activities are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio
of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage.

6

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

Disclosure 202-1
Continued
Guidance
Background
This disclosure applies to those organizations in which
a substantial portion of their employees, and workers
(excluding employees) performing the organization’s
activities, are compensated in a manner or scale that is
closely linked to laws or regulations on minimum wage.
Providing wages above the minimum wage can help
contribute to the economic well-being of workers
performing the organization’s activities. The impacts
of wage levels are immediate, and they directly affect
individuals, organizations, countries and economies. The
distribution of wages is crucial for eliminating inequalities,
such as wage gap differences between women and men,
or nationals and migrants.

Also, entry level wages paid compared to local
minimum wages show the competitiveness of an
organization’s wages and provide information relevant
for assessing the effect of wages on the local labor
market. Comparing this information by gender can also
be a measure of an organization’s approach to equal
opportunity in the workplace.

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

7

Disclosure 202-2
Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

202-2

a. 	Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from
the local community.
b. The definition used for ‘senior management’.
c. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’.
d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.
2.2	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 202-2, the reporting organization shall
calculate this percentage using data on full-time employees.
Guidance

8

Guidance for Disclosure 202-2

Background

Senior management hired from the local community
includes those individuals either born or who have
the legal right to reside indefinitely (such as naturalized
citizens or permanent visa holders) in the same
geographic market as the operation. The geographical
definition of ‘local’ can include the community
surrounding operations, a region within a country,
or a country.

Including members from the local community in an
organization’s senior management demonstrates the
organization’s positive market presence. Including
local community members in the management team
can enhance human capital. It can also increase the
economic benefit to the local community, and improve an
organization’s ability to understand local needs.

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against
Women (CEDAW)’, 1979.

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-059-7

GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
2016

GRI

203

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
	
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts

5
6
6
7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts sets out reporting requirements on the topic of
indirect economic impacts. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 200 series
(Economic topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts, if this is one of
its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with the Standards.
Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in
this way are to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply
with recommendations or guidance in order to claim
that a report has been prepared in accordance with the
Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders.
It also concerns an organization’s impacts on economic
systems at the local, national, and global level. It does
not focus on the financial condition of an organization.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders, and
the main economic impacts of an organization throughout
society.
An economic impact can be defined as a change in
the productive potential of the economy that has
an influence on a community’s or stakeholder’s well-being
and longer-term prospects for development.
GRI 203 addresses indirect economic impacts, which
are the additional consequences of the direct impact
of financial transactions and the flow of money between
an organization and its stakeholders. GRI 203 also
addresses the impacts of an organization’s infrastructure
investments and services supported.
Indirect economic impacts can be monetary or nonmonetary, and are particularly important to assess in
relation to local communities and regional economies.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s indirect economic impacts, and
how it manages them.

4

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

GRI 203:
Indirect Economic
Impacts

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
• Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for indirect economic impacts
using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Reporting recommendations
1.2 	The reporting organization should:
1.2.1	describe work undertaken to understand indirect economic impacts at the national, regional,
or local level;
1.2.2	explain whether it conducted a community needs assessment to determine the need for
infrastructure and other services, and describe the results of the assessment.

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures
An organization is expected to compile information for economic disclosures using figures from its audited
financial statements or from its internally-audited management accounts, whenever possible. Data can be
compiled using, for example:
•

the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), and the Interpretations developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(specific IFRS are referenced for some of the disclosures);

•

the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC);

•

national or regional standards recognized internationally for the purpose of financial reporting.

Disclosure 203-1
Infrastructure investments and services supported
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

203-1

a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported.
b. 	Current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, including positive
and negative impacts where relevant.
c.	Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 203-1, the reporting organization should disclose:
2.1.1

the size, cost and duration of each significant infrastructure investment or service supported;

2.1.2 	the extent to which different communities or local economies are impacted by the organization’s
infrastructure investments and services supported.
Guidance
Background
This disclosure concerns the impact that an
organization’s infrastructure investments and services
supported have on its stakeholders and the economy.

6

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

The impacts of infrastructure investment can extend
beyond the scope of an organization’s own operations
and over a longer timescale. Such investments can
include transport links, utilities, community social
facilities, health and welfare centers, and sports centers.
Along with investment in its own operations, this is
one measure of the organization’s capital contribution
to the economy.

Disclosure 203-2
Significant indirect economic impacts
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, including
positive and negative impacts.

Disclosure

203-2

b. 	Significance of the indirect economic impacts in the context of external benchmarks
and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and
policy agendas.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 203-2

•

enhanced skills and knowledge in a professional
community or in a geographic location (such
as when shifts in an organization’s needs attract
additional skilled workers to an area, who, in turn,
drive a local need for new learning institutions);

•

number of jobs supported in the supply or
distribution chain (such as the employment impacts
on suppliers as a result of an organization’s growth
or contraction);

•

stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct
investment (such as when an organization changes
the infrastructure or services it provides in a
developing country, which then leads to changes
in foreign direct investment in the region);

•

economic impacts from a change in operation or
activity location (such as the impact of outsourcing
jobs to an overseas location);

•

economic impacts from the use of products and
services (such as economic growth resulting from
the use of a particular product or service).

This disclosure concerns the spectrum of indirect
economic impacts that an organization can have
on its stakeholders and the economy.
Examples of significant indirect economic impacts,
both positive and negative, can include:
•

changes in the productivity of organizations,
sectors, or the whole economy (such as through
greater adoption of information technology);

•

economic development in areas of high poverty
(such as changes in the total number of dependents
supported through the income of a single job);

•

economic impacts of improving or deteriorating
social or environmental conditions (such as changing
job market in an area converted from small farms
to large plantations, or the economic impacts
of pollution);

•

availability of products and services for those
on low incomes (such as preferential pricing of
pharmaceuticals, which contributes to a healthier
population that can participate more fully in the
economy; or pricing structures that exceed
the economic capacity of those on low incomes);

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-060-3

GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
2016

GRI

204

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 204: Procurement Practices

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers

5
7
7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 204: Procurement Practices sets out reporting requirements on the topic of
procurement practices. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 204: Procurement Practices is a
topic-specific GRI Standard in the 200 series
(Economic topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

103

102
To report contextual
information about
an organization

Topicspecific
Standards

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 204: Procurement Practices, if this is one of
its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with the Standards.
Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in
this way are to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders,
and on economic systems at local, national, and global
levels. It does not focus on the financial condition of
an organization.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders,
and the main economic impacts of an organization
throughout society.
GRI 204 addresses the topic of procurement practices.
This covers an organization’s support for local suppliers,
or those owned by women or members of vulnerable
groups. It also covers how the organization’s
procurement practices (such as the lead times it gives
to suppliers, or the purchasing prices it negotiates)
cause or contribute to negative impacts in the
supply chain.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to procurement
practices, and how it manages these impacts.

4

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

GRI 204:
Procurement
Practices

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for procurement practices using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
procurement practices, the reporting organization
can also:

Procurement practices that cause or contribute
to negative impacts in the supply chain can include:

•

•

stability or length of relationships with suppliers;

•
•
•
•

lead times;
ordering and payment routines;
purchasing prices;
changing or cancelling orders.

describe actions taken to identify and adjust the
organization’s procurement practices that cause
or contribute to negative impacts in the supply
chain, including:
•	how dialogue with suppliers is used to
identify procurement practices that cause
or contribute to negative impacts in the
supply chain;

6

	

•	actions taken to adjust payment policies
and procedures;

•

describe policies and practices used to select
locally-based suppliers, either organization-wide
or for specific locations;

•

explain the rationale and methodology for tracing
the source, origin, or production conditions of
raw materials and production inputs purchased,
if applicable;

•

describe policies and practices used to promote
economic inclusion when selecting suppliers.

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

Forms of economic inclusion can include:
•
•
•

small and medium-sized suppliers;
suppliers owned by women;
suppliers which are owned by or recruit workers
from members of vulnerable, marginalized,
or under-represented social groups.

2. Topic-specific disclosures
An organization is expected to compile information for economic disclosures using figures from its audited
financial statements or from its internally-audited management accounts, whenever possible. Data can be
compiled using, for example:
•

the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), and the Interpretations developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(specific IFRS are referenced for some of the disclosures);

•

the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC);

•

national or regional standards recognized internationally for the purpose of financial reporting.

Disclosure 204-1
Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

204-1

a. 	Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that
is spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of products and services
purchased locally).
b. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’.
c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 204-1, the reporting organization should
calculate the percentages based on invoices or commitments made during the reporting period,
i.e., using accruals accounting.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 204-1

Background

Local purchases can be made either from a budget
managed at the location of operation or at an
organization’s headquarters.

By supporting local suppliers, an organization can
indirectly attract additional investment to the local
economy. Local sourcing can be a strategy to help
ensure supply, support a stable local economy,
and maintain community relations.

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-061-0

GRI 205: ANTI - CORRUPTION
2016

GRI

205

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 205: Anti-corruption

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
and procedures
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

5
7
7

References

10

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 205: Anti-corruption sets out reporting requirements on the topic of procurement
anti-corruption. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or
geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

8
9

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 205: Anti-corruption is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 200 series (Economic topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 205: Anti-corruption, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with the Standards.
Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in
this way are to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply
with recommendations or guidance in order to claim
that a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders,
and on economic systems at local, national, and global
levels. It does not focus on the financial condition
of an organization.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders,
and the main economic impacts of an organization
throughout society.
GRI 205 addresses the topic of anti-corruption. In this
Standard, corruption is understood to include practices
such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion, and money laundering; the offer or receipt
of gifts, loans, fees, rewards, or other advantages as an
inducement to do something that is dishonest, illegal,
or represents a breach of trust. It can also include
practices such as embezzlement, trading in influence,
abuse of function, illicit enrichment, concealment,
and obstructing justice.
Corruption is broadly linked to negative impacts,
such as poverty in transition economies, damage
to the environment, abuse of human rights,
abuse of democracy, misallocation of investments,
and undermining the rule of law. Organizations
are expected by the marketplace, international
norms, and stakeholders to demonstrate their
adherence to integrity, governance, and responsible
business practices.

4

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development and the United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to corruption,
and how it manages them.

GRI 205:
Anti-corruption

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
• Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
and procedures
• Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
In the context of this GRI Standard, the term ‘business partners’ includes, among others,
suppliers, agents, lobbyists and other intermediaries, joint venture and consortia partners,
governments, customers, and clients.

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for anti-corruption using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Reporting recommendations
1.2

The reporting organization should disclose the following information:
1.2.1 	The organization’s risk assessment procedures for corruption, including the criteria used in the risk
assessment, such as location, activity, and sector;
1.2.2 	How the organization identifies and manages conflicts of interest that employees or persons linked
to the organization’s activities, products, or services may have. Conflicts of interest for the highest
governance body are covered in Disclosure 102-25 of GRI 102: General Disclosures;
1.2.3 	How the organization ensures that charitable donations and sponsorships (financial and in-kind) that
are made to other organizations are not used as a disguised form of bribery. Recipients of charitable
donations and sponsorships (financial and in-kind) can include not-for-profit organizations, religious
organizations, private organizations, and events;
1.2.4 	The extent to which communication and training on anti-corruption is tailored to those governance
body members, employees, business partners, and other persons that have been identified as having
a high risk of incidents of corruption;
1.2.5 	At which stage the training on anti-corruption for governance body members, employees, business
partners and other persons that have been identified as having a high risk of incidents of corruption
is provided (e.g. when new employees join the organization or when relationships with new business
partners are established); and the frequency of the training (e.g. annually or biannually);
1.2.6

6

Whether the organization participates in collective action to combat corruption, including:

		

1.2.6.1

the strategy for the collective action activities;

		

1.2.6.2

a list of the collective action initiatives in which the organization participates;

		

1.2.6.3

a description of the main commitments of these initiatives.

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 205-1
Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

205-1

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption.
b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 205-1

Background

This disclosure can include a risk assessment focused on
corruption or the inclusion of corruption as a risk factor
in overall risk assessments.

This disclosure measures the extent of the risk
assessment’s implementation across an organization.
Risk assessments can help to assess the potential
for incidents of corruption within and related to the
organization, and help the organization to design
policies and procedures to combat corruption.

The term ‘operation’ refers to a single location used
by the organization for the production, storage
and/or distribution of its goods and services, or for
administrative purposes. Within a single operation, there
can be multiple production lines, warehouses, or other
activities. For example, a single factory can be used for
multiple products or a single retail outlet can contain
several different retail operations that are owned or
managed by the organization.

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

7

Disclosure 205-2
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
and procedures
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s
anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region.
b. 	Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies
and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region.
Disclosure

205-2

c. 	Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption
policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner
and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been
communicated to any other persons or organizations.
d. 	Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on
anti-corruption, broken down by region.
e. 	Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption,
broken down by employee category and region.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 205-2, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1 	draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
to identify:
		

2.1.1.1	the governance bodies that exist within the organization, such as the board of directors,
management committee, or similar body for non-corporate organizations;

		

2.1.1.2	the total number of individuals and/or employees who comprise these governance bodies;

		

2.1.1.3	the total number of employees in each employee category, excluding governance body
members;

2.1.2

estimate the total number of business partners.

Guidance
Background
Communication and training build the internal and
external awareness and the necessary capacity to
combat corruption.

8

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

Disclosure 205-3
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption.
Disclosure

205-3

b. 	Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined
for corruption.
c. 	Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated
or not renewed due to violations related to corruption.
d. 	Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees
during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 205-3
For stakeholders, there is an interest in both the
occurrence of incidents and an organization’s response
to the incidents. Public legal cases regarding corruption
can include current public investigations, prosecutions,
or closed cases.

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

9

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention, ‘Convention
on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions’, 1997.
2.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Good Practice Guidance on Internal
Controls, Ethics, and Compliance, 2010.
3.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
4.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention against Corruption’, 2003.

Other relevant references:
5.

British Ministry of Justice, The Bribery Act 2010 Guidance, 2011.

6. 	Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and Enforcement Division of the U.S. Security
and Exchange Commission, A Resource Guide to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 2012.
7.

Transparency International, ‘Business Principles for Countering Bribery’, 2011.

8. 	Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index,
http://www.transparency.org/research/cpi/overview, accessed on 1 September 2016.
9. 	United Nations Global Compact and Transparency International, Reporting Guidance on the 10th
Principle Against Corruption, 2009.
10. 	World Bank, Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI), Control of Corruption,
http://info.worldbank.org/governance/wgi/index.aspx#home, accessed on 1 September 2016.

10

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
11

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-062-7

GRI 206: ANTI - COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
2016

GRI

206

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
	
Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,
and monopoly practices

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour sets out reporting requirements on the topic of anticompetitive behaviour. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

103

To report contextual
information about
an organization

Topicspecific
Standards

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 200 series
(Economic topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information, without
preparing a report in accordance with the Standards.
Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in
this way are to include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the economic
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders,
and on economic systems at local, national, and global
levels. It does not focus on the financial condition of
an organization.
The Standards in the Economic series (200) address
the flow of capital among different stakeholders, and
the main economic impacts of an organization throughout
society.
GRI 206 addresses the topic of anti-competitive behavior,
including anti-trust and monopoly practices.
Anti-competitive behavior refers to actions of an
organization or its employees that can result in collusion
with potential competitors, with the purpose of limiting
the effects of market competition. This can include fixing
prices or coordinating bids, creating market or output
restrictions, imposing geographic quotas, and allocating
customers, suppliers, geographic areas, or product lines.
Anti-trust and monopoly practices are actions of
an organization that can result in collusion to erect
barriers for entry to the sector, or to otherwise prevent
competition. This can include unfair business practices,
abuse of market position, cartels, anti-competitive
mergers, and price-fixing.

4

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide
information about an organization’s impacts related to
anti-competitive behavior, and how it manages them.

GRI 206:
Anti-competitive
Behavior

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,
and monopoly practices

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for anti-competitive behavior
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,
and monopoly practices
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

206-1

a. 	Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding
anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which
the organization has been identified as a participant.
b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments.

Guidance
Background
This disclosure pertains to legal actions initiated under
national or international laws designed primarily for
the purpose of regulating anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, or monopoly practices.
Anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly
practices can affect consumer choice, pricing, and other
factors that are essential to efficient markets. Legislation
introduced in many countries seeks to control or
prevent monopolies, with the underlying assumption
that competition between enterprises also promotes
economic efficiency and sustainable growth.

6

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

Legal action indicates a situation in which the market
actions or status of an organization have reached a
sufficient scale to merit concern by a third party.
Legal decisions arising from these situations can carry the
risk of significant disruption of market activities
for the organization as well as punitive measures.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-063-4

GRI 301: MATERIALS
2016

GRI

301

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 301: Materials

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
	Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input materials used
Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials

5
6
6
7
8

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 301: Materials sets out reporting requirements on the topic of materials. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 301: Materials 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 301: Materials is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 300 series (Environmental
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 301: Materials, if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 301: Materials 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water and ecosystems.
GRI 301 addresses the topic of materials.
The inputs used to manufacture and package an
organization’s products and services can be nonrenewable materials, such as minerals, metals, oil,
gas, or coal; or renewable materials, such as wood
or water. Both renewable and non-renewable materials
can be composed of virgin or recycled input materials.
The type and amount of materials the organization uses
can indicate its dependence on natural resources, and
the impacts it has on their availability. The organization’s
contribution to resource conservation can be indicated by
its approach to recycling, reusing and reclaiming materials,
products, and packaging.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to materials, and
how it manages these impacts.

4

GRI 301: Materials 2016

GRI 301:
Materials

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
• Disclosure 301-2 R
 ecycled input materials used
• Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for materials using GRI 103:
Management Approach.

GRI 301: Materials 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 301-1
Materials used by weight or volume
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

301-1

a. 	Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s
primary products and services during the reporting period, by:
		 i.

non-renewable materials used;

		 ii. renewable materials used.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-1, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1

include the following material types in the calculation of total materials used:

		

2.1.1.1	raw materials, i.e., natural resources used for conversion to products or services, such as
ores, minerals, and wood;

		

2.1.1.2	associated process materials, i.e., materials that are needed for the manufacturing process
but are not part of the final product, such as lubricants for manufacturing machinery;

		

2.1.1.3	semi-manufactured goods or parts, including all forms of materials and components other
than raw materials that are part of the final product;

		

2.1.1.4

materials for packaging purposes, including paper, cardboard and plastics;

2.1.2 	report, for each material type, whether it was purchased from external suppliers or sourced internally
(such as by captive production and extraction activities);
2.1.3

report whether these data are estimated or sourced from direct measurements;

2.1.4

if estimation is required, report the methods used.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 301-1
The reported usage data are to reflect the material in its
original state, and not to be presented with further data
manipulation, such as reporting it as ‘dry weight’.

6

GRI 301: Materials 2016

Disclosure 301-2
Recycled input materials used
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

301-2

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary
products and services.
2.2

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.2.1 	use the total weight or volume of materials used as specified in Disclosure 301-1;
2.2.2 	calculate the percentage of recycled input materials used by applying the following formula:

		
Percentage of recycled
input materials used
		

=

Total recycled input materials used
Total input materials used

x 100

Reporting recommendations
2.3 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-2, the reporting organization should, if estimation
is required, report the methods used.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 301-2
If material weight and volume measurements are
stated as different units, the organization can convert
measurements to standardized units.

GRI 301: Materials 2016

7

Disclosure 301-3
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

301-3

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category.
b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected.
2.4

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-3, the reporting organization shall:
2.4.1 	exclude rejects and recalls of products;
2.4.2 	calculate the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each
product category using the following formula:

		
Percentage of reclaimed
products and their
		
packaging materials

=

Products and their packaging materials
reclaimed within the reporting period

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 301-3
The reporting organization can also report recycling
or reuse of packaging separately.

8

GRI 301: Materials 2016

Products sold within the
reporting period

x 100

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
9

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-064-1

GRI 302: ENERGY
2016

GRI

302

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 302: Energy

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
	
Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization
Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity
Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
Disclosure 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services

5
6
6
8
10
11
12

References

13

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 302: Energy sets out reporting requirements on the topic of energy. This Standard
can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location that wants
to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 302: Energy 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

GRI 302: Energy is a topic-specific GRI Standard
in the 300 series (Environmental topics).

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 302: Energy, if this is one of its material topics.

Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 302: Energy 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply
with recommendations or guidance in order to claim
that a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water and ecosystems.
GRI 302 addresses the topic of energy.
An organization can consume energy in various forms,
such as fuel, electricity, heating, cooling or steam.
Energy can be self-generated or purchased from external
sources and it can come from renewable sources (such
as wind, hydro or solar) or from non-renewable sources
(such as coal, petroleum or natural gas).
Using energy more efficiently and opting for renewable
energy sources is essential for combating climate change
and for lowering an organization’s overall environmental
footprint.
Energy consumption can also occur throughout the
upstream and downstream activities connected with
an organization’s operations. This can include consumers’
use of products the organization sells, and the end-of-life
treatment of these products.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to energy,
and how it manages them.

4

GRI 302: Energy 2016

GRI 302:
Energy

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
• Disclosure 302-2 E
 nergy consumption outside of the organization
• Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity
• Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
• Disclosure 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for energy using GRI 103:
Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for energy,
the reporting organization can also explain whether
it is subject to any country, regional, or industry-level
energy regulations and policies. Additionally, it can
provide examples of these regulations and policies.

GRI 302: Energy 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 302-1
Energy consumption within the organization
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total fuel consumption within the organization from non-renewable sources, in joules
or multiples, and including fuel types used.
b. 	Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules
or multiples, and including fuel types used.
c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:

Disclosure

302-1

		

i.

electricity consumption

		

ii. heating consumption

		

iii. cooling consumption

		

iv. steam consumption

d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
		

i.

electricity sold

		

ii. heating sold

		

iii. cooling sold

		

iv. steam sold

e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples.
f.

Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.

g. Source of the conversion factors used.
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-1, the reporting organization shall:
2.1.1	avoid the double-counting of fuel consumption, when reporting self-generated energy
consumption. If the organization generates electricity from a non-renewable or renewable
fuel source and then consumes the generated electricity, the energy consumption shall
be counted once under fuel consumption;
2.1.2

report fuel consumption separately for non-renewable and renewable fuel sources;

2.1.3

only report energy consumed by entities owned or controlled by the organization;

2.1.4 	calculate the total energy consumption within the organization in joules or multiples
using the following formula:

6

GRI 302: Energy 2016

Disclosure 302-1
Continued
Total energy consumption within the organization
=
Non-renewable fuel consumed
+
Renewable fuel consumed
+
Electricity, heating, cooling, and steam purchased for consumption
+
Self-generated electricity, heating, cooling, and steam,
which are not consumed (see clause 2.1.1)
Electricity, heating, cooling, and steam sold
Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-1, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1

apply conversion factors consistently for the data disclosed;

2.2.2

use local conversion factors to convert fuel to joules, or multiples, when possible;

2.2.3

use the generic conversion factors, when local conversion factors are unavailable;

2.2.4

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.2.5 	select a consistent topic Boundary for energy consumption. When possible, the Boundary should
be consistent with that used in Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2 of GRI 305: Emissions;
2.2.6 	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of energy consumption
data by:
		

2.2.6.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.2.6.2

country;

		

2.2.6.3 	type of source (see definitions for the listing of non-renewable sources and
renewable sources);

		

2.2.6.4

type of activity.

Guidance
Background
For some organizations, electricity is the only
significant form of energy they consume. For others,
energy sources such as steam or water provided from
a district heating plant or chilled water plant can also
be important.
Energy can be purchased from sources external to
the organization or produced by the organization
itself (self-generated).
Non-renewable fuel sources can include fuel for
combustion in boilers, furnaces, heaters, turbines,
flares, incinerators, generators and vehicles that are
owned or controlled by the organization. Non-renewable
fuel sources cover fuels purchased by
the organization. They also include fuel generated
by the organization’s activities – such as mined coal,
or gas from oil and gas extraction.

Renewable fuel sources can include biofuels, when
purchased for direct use, and biomass in sources
owned or controlled by the organization.
Consuming non-renewable fuels is usually the main
contributor to direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, which
are reported in Disclosure 305-1 of GRI 305: Emissions.
Consuming purchased electricity, heating, cooling,
and steam contributes to the organization’s energy
indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, which are reported
in Disclosure 305-2 of GRI 305: Emissions.

GRI 302: Energy 2016

7

Disclosure 302-2
Energy consumption outside of the organization
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in joules or multiples.

Disclosure

302-2

b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
c. Source of the conversion factors used.
2.3 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-2, the reporting organization shall
exclude energy consumption reported in Disclosure 302-1.
Reporting recommendations
2.4

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-2, the reporting organization should:
2.4.1

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.4.2 	list energy consumption outside of the organization, with a breakdown by upstream
and downstream categories and activities.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 302-2
The reporting organization can identify energy
consumption outside of the organization by assessing
whether an activity’s energy consumption:
•

contributes significantly to the organization’s total
anticipated energy consumption outside of the
organization;

The organization can use the following upstream and
downstream categories and activities from the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting
and Reporting Standard’ for identifying relevant energy
consumption outside of the organization (see reference 2
in the References section):
Upstream categories

offers potential for reductions the organization
can undertake or influence;

1.

Purchased goods and services

2.

Capital goods

•

contributes to climate change-related risks, such
as financial, regulatory, supply chain, product
and customer, litigation, and reputational risks;

3.

Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included
in Disclosure 302-1)

•

is deemed material by stakeholders, such as
customers, suppliers, investors, or civil society;

4.

Upstream transportation and distribution

5.

Waste generated in operations

•

results from outsourced activities previously
performed in-house, or that are typically
performed in-house by other organizations
in the same sector;

6.

Business travel

7.

Employee commuting

8.

Upstream leased assets

•

Other upstream

•

has been identified as significant for the
organization’s sector;

Downstream categories

•

meets any additional criteria for determining
relevance, developed by the organization
or by organizations in its sector.

10. Processing of sold products

9.

Downstream transportation and distribution

11. Use of sold products
12. End-of-life treatment of sold products
13. Downstream leased assets
14. Franchises
15. Investments
Other downstream

8

GRI 302: Energy 2016

Disclosure 302-2
Continued
For each of these categories and activities, the
organization can calculate or estimate the amount
of energy consumed.

This can include consumers’ use of products the
organization sells, and the end-of-life treatment
of products.

The organization can report energy consumption
separately for non-renewable sources and renewable
sources.

Quantifying energy consumption outside of the
organization can provide a basis for calculating some
of the relevant other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions in Disclosure 305-3 of GRI 305: Emissions.

Background
Energy consumption can occur outside an organization,
i.e., throughout the organization’s upstream and
downstream activities associated with its operations.

GRI 302: Energy 2016

9

Disclosure 302-3
Energy intensity
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization.
Disclosure

b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio.

302-3

c. 	Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling,
steam, or all.
d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both.
2.5

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-3, the reporting organization shall:
2.5.1 	calculate the ratio by dividing the absolute energy consumption (the numerator) by the
organization-specific metric (the denominator);
2.5.2 	if reporting an intensity ratio both for the energy consumed within the organization
and outside of it, report these intensity ratios separately.

Reporting recommendations
2.6 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-3, the reporting organization should, where
it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the energy intensity ratio by:
2.6.1

business unit or facility;

2.6.2

country;

2.6.3 	type of source (see definitions for the listing of non-renewable sources and renewable sources);
2.6.4

type of activity.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 302-3

Background

Intensity ratios can be provided for, among others:

Energy intensity ratios define energy consumption in the
context of an organization-specific metric.

•

products (such as energy consumed per unit
produced);

•

services (such as energy consumed per function
or per service);

•

sales (such as energy consumed per monetary
unit of sales).

Organization-specific metrics (denominators)
can include:
•

units of product;

•

production volume (such as metric tons, liters,
or MWh);
size (such as m2 floor space);
number of full-time employees;
monetary units (such as revenue or sales).

•
•
•

10

GRI 302: Energy 2016

These ratios express the energy required per unit
of activity, output, or any other organization-specific
metric. Intensity ratios are often called normalized
environmental impact data.
In combination with the organization’s total energy
consumption, reported in Disclosures 302-1 and 302-2,
energy intensity helps to contextualize the organization’s
efficiency, including in relation to other organizations.
See references 1 and 3 in the References section.

Disclosure 302-4
Reduction of energy consumption
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation
and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples.
Disclosure

b. 	Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling,
steam, or all.

302-4

c. 	Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline,
including the rationale for choosing it.
d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.7 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-4, the reporting organization shall:
2.7.1

exclude reductions resulting from reduced production capacity or outsourcing;

2.7.2 	describe whether energy reduction is estimated, modeled, or sourced from direct
measurements. If estimation or modeling is used, the organization shall disclose
the methods used.
Reporting recommendations
2.8 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-4, the reporting organization should,
if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 302-4
The reporting organization can prioritize disclosing
reduction initiatives that were implemented in the
reporting period, and that have the potential to
contribute significantly to reductions. Reduction
initiatives and their targets can be described in the
management approach for this topic.

The organization can report reductions in energy
consumption by combining energy types, or separately
for fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam.
The organization can also provide a breakdown
of reductions in energy consumption by individual
initiatives or groups of initiatives.

Reduction initiatives can include:
•

process redesign;

•

conversion and retrofitting of equipment;

•

changes in behavior;

•

operational changes.

GRI 302: Energy 2016

11

Disclosure 302-5
Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

302-5

a. 	Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during
the reporting period, in joules or multiples.
b. 	Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline,
including the rationale for choosing it.
c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.

Reporting recommendations
2.9

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-5, the reporting organization should:
2.9.1

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.9.2 	refer to industry use standards to obtain this information, where available (such as fuel consumption
of cars for 100 km at 90 km/h).
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 302-5
Use-oriented figures can include, for example,
the energy requirements of a car or a computer.
Consumption patterns can include, for example,
10 percent less energy use per 100 km travelled
or per time unit (hour, average working day).

12

GRI 302: Energy 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Relevant references:
1. 	World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD), ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’, Revised Edition, 2004.
2.	World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD), ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard’, 2011.
3.	World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD), ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting Notes, No. 1, Accounting and Reporting Standard
Amendment’, 2012.

GRI 302: Energy 2016

13

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
14

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-065-8

GRI 303: WATER
2016

GRI

303

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 303: Water

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 303-1 Water withdrawal by source
	
Disclosure 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water
Disclosure 303-3 Water recycled and reused

5
6
6
7
8

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 303: Water sets out reporting requirements on the topic of water. This Standard can
be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to
report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 303: Water 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

GRI 303: Water is a topic-speciﬁc GRI Standard
in the 300 series (Environmental topics).

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 303: Water, if this is one of its material topics.

Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 303: Water 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order to claim that
a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems,
including land, air, water and ecosystems.
GRI 303 addresses the topic of water.
Access to fresh water is essential for human life and
wellbeing, and is recognized by the United Nations as a
human right. An organization can impact water resources
through its withdrawal and consumption of water.
Withdrawals from a water system can affect the
environment by lowering the water table, reducing the
volume of water available for use, or otherwise altering
the ability of an ecosystem to perform its functions. Such
changes have wider impacts on the quality of life in the
area, including economic and social consequences; and
consequences for the local communities or indigenous
peoples for whom the water source is important.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to water, and how
it manages them.
Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also
be found in:
•

4

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste

GRI 303: Water 2016

GRI 303:
Water

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 303-1 Water withdrawal by source
• Disclosure 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water
• Disclosure 303-3 Water recycled and reused

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for water using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 303: Water 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 303-1
Water withdrawal by source
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by the following sources:
Disclosure

303-1

		

i.

Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans;

		

ii. Ground water;

		

iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization;

		

iv. Waste water from another organization;

		

v.

Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities.

b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-1, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1

include the abstraction of cooling water;

2.1.2

report whether these calculations are estimated, modelled, or sourced from direct measurements;

2.1.3

if estimation or modelling has been used, report the estimation or modelling methods.

Guidance

6

Guidance for Disclosure 303-1

Background

This disclosure can include water withdrawn either
directly by the organization or through intermediaries,
such as water utilities.

Reporting the total volume of water withdrawn by
source contributes to an understanding of the overall
scale of potential impacts and risks associated with an
organization’s water use. The total volume withdrawn
provides an indication of the organization’s relative size
and importance as a user of water, and provides a baseline
ﬁgure for other calculations relating to efﬁciency and use.

GRI 303: Water 2016

Disclosure 303-2
Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number of water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal by type:
Disclosure

303-2

		

i.

Size of the water source;

		

ii. Whether the source is designated as a nationally or internationally protected area;

		

iii.	Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, and total number of
protected species);

		

iv. Value or importance of the water source to local communities and indigenous peoples.

b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
2.2	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 303-2, the reporting organization
shall report water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal that meet one or more of the
following criteria:
2.2.1 	Withdrawals that account for an average of ﬁve percent or more of the annual average
volume of the water body;
2.2.2 	Withdrawals from water bodies that are recognized by professionals to be particularly
sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered
system, or that support a particular endangered species of plant or animal;
2.2.3 	Any withdrawal from a wetland listed in the Ramsar Convention or any other nationally
or internationally proclaimed conservation area, regardless of the rate of withdrawal;
2.2.4 	The water source has been identiﬁed as having high biodiversity value, such as species
diversity and endemism, or total number of protected species;
2.2.5 	The water source has been identiﬁed as having a high value or importance to local
communities and indigenous peoples.
Reporting recommendations
2.3 	When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-2, the reporting organization should report the
original water body or source, if the water is provided by municipal water supplies or other public or private
water utilities.
Guidance
See references 1 and 3 in the References section.

GRI 303: Water 2016

7

Disclosure 303-3
Water recycled and reused
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

303-3

a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization.
b. 	Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal
as speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-1.
c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
2.4 	When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-3, the reporting organization shall
include grey water, i.e., collected rainwater and wastewater generated by household processes,
such as washing dishes, laundry, and bathing.
Reporting recommendations
2.5 	When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 303-3, the reporting organization should:
2.5.1

report if water or ﬂow meters do not exist and estimation by modeling is required;

2.5.2	calculate the volume of recycled/reused water based on the volume of water demand satisﬁed
by recycled/reused water, rather than by further withdrawals.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 303-3

Background

This disclosure measures both water treated prior to
reuse and water not treated prior to reuse.

The rate of water reuse and recycling is a measure
of efﬁciency and demonstrates the success of an
organization in reducing total water withdrawals and
discharges. Increased reuse and recycling can reduce
water consumption, treatment, and disposal costs.
Reducing water consumption over time through reuse
and recycling also contributes to local, national, or
regional goals for managing water supplies.

Guidance for clause 2.5.2
For example, if an organization has a production cycle
that requires 20 m3 of water per cycle, the organization
withdraws 20 m3 of water for one production process
cycle and reuses it for an additional three cycles, then
the total volume of water recycled and reused for that
process is 60 m3.

8

GRI 303: Water 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Ramsar Convention, ‘The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially
as Waterfowl Habitat’, 1994.
Other relevant references:
2.

Ceres, The Ceres Aqua Gauge: A Framework for 21st Century Water Risk Management, 2011.

3.	International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Red List of Threatened Species,
http://www.iucnredlist.org/, accessed on 1 September 2016.

GRI 303: Water 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-066-5

GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY
2016

GRI

304

1

Contents
Introduction

3

GRI 304: Biodiversity

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside
protected areas
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services
on biodiversity
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species
with habitats in areas affected by operations

5
7

References

11

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 304: Biodiversity sets out reporting requirements on the topic of biodiversity. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

7
8
9
10

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 304: Biodiversity is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 300 series (Environmental
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 304: Biodiversity, if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order to claim that
a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water, and ecosystems.
GRI 304 addresses the topic of biodiversity.
Protecting biological diversity is important for ensuring
the survival of plant and animal species, genetic diversity,
and natural ecosystems. In addition, natural ecosystems
provide clean water and air, and contribute to food
security and human health. Biodiversity also contributes
directly to local livelihoods, making it essential for
achieving poverty reduction, and thus sustainable
development.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to biodiversity,
and how it manages them.

4

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

GRI 304:
Biodiversity

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areas
• Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services
on biodiversity
• Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored
• Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list
species with habitats in areas affected by operations

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for biodiversity using GRI 103:
Management Approach.

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
biodiversity, the reporting organization can also
describe its strategy for achieving its policy on
biodiversity management. A biodiversity strategy
can contain a combination of elements related to
the prevention, management, and remediation of damage
to natural habitats resulting from the organization’s
activities. An example of this is the integration of
biodiversity considerations into analytical tools, such
as environmental site impact assessments.

6

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 304-1
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside
protected areas
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information:

Disclosure

		

i.

		

ii. 	Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed
by the organization;

		

iii. 	Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing
portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside
protected areas;

		

iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive);

		

v.

		

vi. 	Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high
biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime
ecosystem);

		

vii. 	Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected
Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation).

304-1

Geographic location;

Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate);

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-1, the reporting organization should include
information about sites for which future operations have been formally announced.
Guidance
Background
Monitoring which activities are taking place in both
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areas makes it possible for the
organization to reduce the risks of impacts. It also
makes it possible for the organization to manage
impacts on biodiversity or to avoid mismanagement.

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

7

Disclosure 304-2
Significant impacts of activities, products, and services
on biodiversity
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more
of the following:

Disclosure

304-2

		

i. 	Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure;

		

ii. 	Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat
from point and non-point sources);

		

iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens;

		

iv. Reduction of species;

		

v.

		

vi. 	Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or
changes in groundwater level).

Habitat conversion;

b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following:
		

i.

Species affected;

		

ii. Extent of areas impacted;

		

iii. Duration of impacts;

		

iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 304-2

Background

Indirect impacts on biodiversity can include impacts
in the supply chain.

This disclosure provides the background for
understanding (and developing) an organization’s
strategy to mitigate significant direct and indirect
impacts on biodiversity. By presenting structured
and qualitative information, the disclosure enables
comparison of the relative size, scale, and nature
of impacts over time and across organizations.

Areas of impact are not limited to areas that are
formally protected and include consideration of
impacts on buffer zones, as well as formally designated
areas of special importance or sensitivity.

8

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

Disclosure 304-3
Habitats protected or restored
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

304-3

a. 	Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the
restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals.
b. 	Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from
where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures.
c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period.
d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.

Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-3, the reporting organization should align
the information presented in this disclosure with regulatory or license requirements for the protection
or restoration of habitats, if applicable.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 304-3
This disclosure addresses the extent of an
organization’s prevention and remediation activities
with respect to its impacts on biodiversity. This
disclosure refers to areas where remediation has

been completed or where the area is actively
protected. Areas where operations are still active can
be counted if they conform to the definitions of ‘area
restored’ or ‘area protected’.

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

9

Disclosure 304-4
IUCN Red List species and national conservation list
species with habitats in areas affected by operations
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats
in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk:
Disclosure

304-4

		

i.

Critically endangered

		

ii. Endangered

		 iii. Vulnerable
		

iv. Near threatened

		

v.

Least concern

Reporting recommendations
2.3 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-4, the reporting organization should compare
the information in the IUCN Red List and national conservation lists with the species outlined in planning
documentation and monitoring records to ensure consistency.
Guidance
Background
This disclosure helps an organization to identify
where its activities pose a threat to endangered plant
and animal species. By identifying these threats, the
organization can initiate appropriate steps to avoid
harm and to prevent the extinction of species.
The International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) ‘Red List of Threatened Species’ (an inventory

10

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

of the global conservation status of plant and animal
species) and national conservation lists serve as
authorities on the sensitivity of habitat in areas
affected by operations, and on the relative importance
of these habitats from a management perspective.
See reference 8 in the References section.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Ramsar Convention, ‘The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially
as Waterfowl Habitat’, 1994.
2.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological Diversity’, 1992.

3.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES)’, 1979.
4.	United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Biosphere Reserves,
http://www.unesco.org/new/en/natural-sciences/environment/ecological-sciences/biosphere-reserves/,
accessed on 1 September 2016.
5.	United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), World Heritage Sites List,
http://whc.unesco.org/en/list, accessed on 1 September 2016.
Other relevant references:
6.	BirdLife International, Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas, http://www.birdlife.org/datazone/site,
accessed on 1 September 2016.
7.	International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Guidelines for Applying Protected Area Management
Categories, 2008.
8.	International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Red List of Threatened Species,
http://www.iucnredlist.org/, accessed on 1 September 2016.

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

11

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
12

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-067-2

GRI 305: EMISSIONS
2016

GRI

305

1

Contents
Introduction

3

GRI 305: Emissions

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Disclosure 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other
significant air emissions

5
7
7
9
11
13
14
15

References

18

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 305: Emissions sets out reporting requirements on the topic of emissions. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

17

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 305: Emissions is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 300 series (Environmental
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 305: Emissions, if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply
with recommendations or guidance in order to claim
that a report has been prepared in accordance with the
Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water and ecosystems.
GRI 305 addresses emissions into air, which are
the discharge of substances from a source into the
atmosphere. Types of emissions include: greenhouse gas
(GHG), ozone-depleting substances (ODS), and nitrogen
oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX), among other
significant air emissions.
GHG emissions
GHG emissions are a major contributor to climate
change and are governed by the United Nations (UN)
‘Framework Convention on Climate Change’ and the
subsequent UN ‘Kyoto Protocol’.
This Standard covers the following GHGs:
•

Carbon dioxide (CO2)

•

Methane (CH4)

•

Nitrous oxide (N2O)

•

Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)

•

Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)

•

Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6)

•

Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3)

Some GHGs, including methane, are also air pollutants
that have significant adverse impacts on ecosystems,
air quality, agriculture, and human and animal health.

4

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

As a result, different national and international
regulations and incentive systems, such as emissions
trading, aim to control the volume and reward the
reduction of GHG emissions.
The reporting requirements for GHG emissions in this
Standard are based on the requirements of the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’
(‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’) and the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting
and Reporting Standard’ (‘GHG Protocol Corporate
Value Chain Standard’). These two standards are part of
the GHG Protocol developed by the World Resources
Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council on
Sustainable Development (WBCSD).
The GHG Protocol has established a classification of
GHG emissions called ‘Scope’: Scope 1, Scope 2 and
Scope 3. The GHG emissions standard published by the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO), ‘ISO
14064’, represents these classifications of Scope with the
following terms:
•

Direct GHG emissions = Scope I

•

Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2

•

Other indirect GHG emissions = Scope 3

In this Standard, these terms are combined in the
following way, as defined in the GRI Standards Glossary:
•

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

•

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

•

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

Ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
The ozone layer filters out most of the sun’s biologically
harmful ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation. Observed and
projected ozone depletion due to ODS generates
worldwide concern. The UN Environment Programme
(UNEP) ‘Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete
the Ozone Layer’ (‘Montreal Protocol’) regulates the
phase-out of ODS internationally.
Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other
significant air emissions
Pollutants such as NOX and SOX have adverse effects
on climate, ecosystems, air quality, habitats, agriculture,
and human and animal health. Deterioration of air
quality, acidification, forest degradation and public health
concerns have led to local and international regulations
to control emissions of these pollutants.
Reductions in the emission of regulated pollutants lead
to improved health conditions for workers and local
communities and can enhance relations with affected
stakeholders. In regions with emission caps, the volume
of emissions also has direct cost implications.
Other significant air emissions include, for example,
persistent organic pollutants or particulate matter,
as well as air emissions that are regulated under
international conventions and/or national laws or
regulations, including those listed on an organization’s
environmental permits.

GRI 305:
Emissions

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
• Disclosure 305-2 E
 nergy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
• Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
• Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
• Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
• Disclosure 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
• Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other
significant air emissions

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for emissions using
GRI 103: Management Approach.
1.2	When reporting on GHG emissions targets, the reporting organization shall explain whether
offsets were used to meet the targets, including the type, amount, criteria or scheme of which
the offsets are part.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
emissions, the reporting organization can also:

6

•

explain whether it is subject to any country,
regional, or industry-level emissions regulations and
policies; and provide examples of these regulations
and policies;

•

disclose expenditures on treatment of emissions
(such as expenditures for filters, agents) and for the
purchase and use of emissions certificates.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
b. 	Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.
c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
Disclosure

305-1

		

i.

the rationale for choosing it;

		

ii. emissions in the base year;

		

iii.	the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base
year emissions.

e. 	Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used,
or a reference to the GWP source.
f. 	Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control,
or operational control.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-1, the reporting organization shall:
2.1.1

exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions;

2.1.2 	report biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass
separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Exclude biogenic emissions
of other types of GHG (such as CH4 and N2O), and biogenic emissions of CO2 that occur
in the life cycle of biomass other than from combustion or biodegradation (such as GHG
emissions from processing or transporting biomass).
Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-1, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1

apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;

2.2.2 	use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year timeframe;
2.2.3 	select a consistent approach for consolidating direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions; choosing from the equity share, financial control, or operational control methods
outlined in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’;
2.2.4

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

7

Disclosure 305-1
Continued
2.2.5	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the direct (Scope 1)
GHG emissions by:
		

2.2.5.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.2.5.2

country;

		

2.2.5.3

type of source (stationary combustion, process, fugitive);

		

2.2.5.4

type of activity.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions include, but are
not limited to, the CO2 emissions from the fuel
consumption as reported in Disclosure 302-1 of
GRI 302: Energy.
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions can come from
the following sources owned or controlled by an
organization:
•

•

Generation of electricity, heating, cooling and
steam: these emissions result from combustion
of fuels in stationary sources, such as boilers,
furnaces, and turbines – and from other
combustion processes such as flaring;
Physical or chemical processing: most of these
emissions result from the manufacturing or
processing of chemicals and materials, such as
cement, steel, aluminum, ammonia, and waste
processing;

•

Transportation of materials, products, waste,
workers, and passengers: these emissions result
from the combustion of fuels in mobile combustion
sources owned or controlled by the organization,
such as trucks, trains, ships, airplanes, buses,
and cars;

•

Fugitive emissions: these are emissions that are not
physically controlled but result from intentional or
unintentional releases of GHGs. These can include
equipment leaks from joints, seals, packing, and
gaskets; methane emissions (e.g., from coal mines)
and venting; HFC emissions from refrigeration and
air conditioning equipment; and methane leakages
(e.g., from gas transport).

Methodologies used to calculate the direct (Scope I)
GHG emissions can include:

8

•

direct measurement of energy source consumed
(coal, gas) or losses (refills) of cooling systems and
conversion to GHG (CO2 equivalents);

•

mass balance calculations;

•

calculations based on site-specific data, such as for
fuel composition analysis;

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

•

calculations based on published criteria, such as
emission factors and GWP rates;

•

direct measurements of GHG emissions, such as
continuous online analyzers;

•

estimations.

If estimations are used due to a lack of default figures,
the reporting organization can indicate the basis and
assumptions on which figures were estimated.
For recalculations of prior year emissions, the
organization can follow the approach in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from
mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary reporting
frameworks, or industry groups.
Estimates of GWP rates change over time as scientific
research develops. GWP rates from the Second
Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) are used as the basis for
international negotiations under the ‘Kyoto Protocol’.
Thus, such rates can be used for disclosing GHG
emissions where it does not conflict with national or
regional reporting requirements. The organization can
also use the latest GWP rates from the most recent
IPCC assessment report.
The organization can combine Disclosure 305-1 with
Disclosures 305-2 (energy indirect/Scope 2 GHG
emissions) and 305-3 (other indirect/Scope 3 GHG
emissions) to disclose total GHG emissions.
Further details and guidance are available in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’. See also references 1, 2,
12, 13, 14 and 19 in the References section.

Disclosure 305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
b. 	If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of
CO2 equivalent.
c. 	If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3,
or all.
d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
Disclosure

305-2

		

i.

the rationale for choosing it;

		

ii. emissions in the base year;

		

iii.	the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base
year emissions.

e. 	Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used,
or a reference to the GWP source.
f. 	Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control,
or operational control.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.3

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.3.1 	exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions;
2.3.2 	exclude other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that are disclosed as specified in
Disclosure 305-3;
2.3.3 	account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions based on the locationbased method, if it has operations in markets without product or supplier-specific data;
2.3.4 	account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions based on both the
location-based and market-based methods, if it has any operations in markets providing
product or supplier-specific data in the form of contractual instruments.

Reporting recommendations
2.4 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-2, the reporting organization should:
2.4.1

apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;

2.4.2

use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year timeframe;

2.4.3	select a consistent approach for consolidating direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions, choosing from the equity share, financial control, or operational control methods
outlined in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’;
2.4.4

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.4.5	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the energy indirect
(Scope 2) GHG emissions by:
		

2.4.5.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.4.5.2

country;

		

2.4.5.3

type of source (electricity, heating, cooling, and steam);

		

2.4.5.4

type of activity.
GRI 305: Emissions 2016

9

Disclosure 305-2
Continued
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions include,
but are not limited to, the CO2 emissions from the
generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating,
cooling, and steam consumed by an organization –
disclosed as specified in Disclosure 302-1 of GRI 302:
Energy. For many organizations, the energy indirect
(Scope 2) GHG emissions that result from the
generation of purchased electricity can be much greater
than their direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions.
The ‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance’ requires
organizations to provide two distinct Scope 2 values: a
location-based and a market-based value. A locationbased method reflects the average GHG emissions
intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs,
using mostly grid-average emission factor data. A marketbased method reflects emissions from electricity that
an organization has purposefully chosen (or its lack of
choice). It derives emission factors from contractual
instruments, which include any type of contract between
two parties for the sale and purchase of energy bundled
with attributes about the energy generation, or for
unbundled attribute claims.
The market-based method calculation also includes
the use of a residual mix, if the organization does not
have specified emissions-intensity from its contractual
instruments. This helps prevent double counting between
consumers’ market-based method figures. If a residual
mix is unavailable, the organization can disclose this and
use grid-average emission factors as a proxy (which can
mean that the location-based and market-based are the
same number until information on the residual mix is
available).
The reporting organization can apply the Quality
Criteria in the ‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance’ so
that contractual instruments convey GHG emission rate
claims and to prevent double counting. See reference 18
in the References section.
For recalculations of prior year emissions, the
organization can follow the approach in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from
mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary reporting
frameworks, or industry groups.

10

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

Estimates of GWP rates change over time as scientific
research develops. GWP rates from the Second
Assessment Report of the IPCC are used as the basis for
international negotiations under the ‘Kyoto Protocol’.
Thus, such rates can be used for disclosing GHG
emissions where it does not conflict with national or
regional reporting requirements. The organization can
also use the latest GWP rates from the most recent
IPCC assessment report.
The organization can combine Disclosure 305-2 with
Disclosures 305-1 (direct/Scope 1 GHG emissions)
and 305-3 (other indirect/Scope 3 GHG emissions) to
disclose total GHG emissions.
Further details and guidance are available in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’. Details on the locationbased and market-based methods are available in the
‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance’. See also references
1, 2, 12, 13, 14 and 18 in the References section.

Disclosure 305-3
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
b. 	If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3,
or all.
c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the calculation.
Disclosure

305-3

e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
		

i.

the rationale for choosing it;

		

ii. emissions in the base year;

		

iii.	the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base
year emissions.

f. 	Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used,
or a reference to the GWP source.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.5

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-3, the reporting organization shall:
2.5.1 	exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions;
2.5.2 	exclude energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from this disclosure. Energy indirect
(Scope 2) GHG emissions are disclosed as specified in Disclosure 305-2;
2.5.3 	report biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass that
occur in its value chain separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions.
Exclude biogenic emissions of other types of GHG (such as CH4 and N2O), and biogenic
emissions of CO2 that occur in the life cycle of biomass other than from combustion or
biodegradation (such as GHG emissions from processing or transporting biomass).

Reporting recommendations
2.6 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-3, the reporting organization should:
2.6.1

apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;

2.6.2

use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year timeframe;

2.6.3

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.6.4	list other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, with a breakdown by upstream and downstream
categories and activities;
2.6.5	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the other indirect
(Scope 3) GHG emissions by:
		

2.6.5.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.6.5.2

country;

		

2.6.5.3

type of source;

		

2.6.5.4

type of activity.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

11

Disclosure 305-3
Continued
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-3

Upstream categories

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions are a
consequence of an organization’s activities, but
occur from sources not owned or controlled by
the organization. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions include both upstream and downstream
emissions. Some examples of Scope 3 activities
include extracting and producing purchased materials;
transporting purchased fuels in vehicles not owned
or controlled by the organization; and the end use
of products and services.

1.

Purchased goods and services

2.

Capital goods

3.

Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included
in Scope 1 or Scope 2)

4.

Upstream transportation and distribution

5.

Waste generated in operations

6.

Business travel

7.

Employee commuting

Other indirect emissions can also come from the
decomposing of the organization’s waste. Processrelated emissions during the manufacture of purchased
goods and fugitive emissions in facilities not owned by
the organization can also produce indirect emissions.

8.

Upstream leased assets

For some organizations, GHG emissions that result
from energy consumption outside of the organization
can be much greater than their direct (Scope 1) or
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions.

10. Processing of sold products

The reporting organization can identify other indirect
(Scope 3) GHG emissions by assessing which of its
activities’ emissions:
•

contribute significantly to the organization’s
total anticipated other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions;

Other upstream
Downstream categories
9.

Downstream transportation and distribution

11. Use of sold products
12. End-of-life treatment of sold products
13. Downstream leased assets
14. Franchises
15. Investments
Other downstream
For each of these categories and activities, the
organization can provide a figure in CO2 equivalent
or explain why certain data are not included.

•

offer potential for reductions the organization can
undertake or influence;

•

contribute to climate change-related risks, such
as financial, regulatory, supply chain, product and
customer, litigation, and reputational risks;

•

are deemed material by stakeholders, such as
customers, suppliers, investors, or civil society;

•

result from outsourced activities previously
performed in-house, or that are typically
performed in-house by other organizations
in the same sector;

•

have been identified as significant for the
organization’s sector;

•

meet any additional criteria for determining
relevance, developed by the organization or
by organizations in its sector.

Estimates of GWP rates change over time as
scientific research develops. GWP rates from the
Second Assessment Report of the IPCC are used as
the basis for international negotiations under the
‘Kyoto Protocol’. Thus, such rates can be used for
disclosing GHG emissions where it does not conflict
with national or regional reporting requirements.
The organization can also use the latest GWP rates
from the most recent IPCC assessment report.

The organization can use the following upstream
and downstream categories and activities from the
‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard’
(see reference 15 in the References section):

The organization can combine Disclosure 305-3 with
Disclosures 305-1 (direct/Scope 1 GHG emissions)
and 305-2 (energy indirect/Scope 2 GHG emissions)
to disclose total GHG emissions.

For recalculations of prior year emissions, the
organization can follow the approach in the
‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from
mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary
reporting frameworks, or industry groups.

See references 1, 2, 12, 13, 15, 17 and 19 in the
References section.

12

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

Disclosure 305-4
GHG emissions intensity
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization.
Disclosure

b. 	Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio.

305-4

c. 	Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect
(Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3).
d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.
2.7

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-4, the reporting organization shall:
2.7.1 	calculate the ratio by dividing the absolute GHG emissions (the numerator) by the
organization-specific metric (the denominator);
2.7.2 	if reporting an intensity ratio for other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, report this
intensity ratio separately from the intensity ratios for direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect
(Scope 2) emissions.

Reporting recommendations
2.8 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-4, the reporting organization should, where it
aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the GHG emissions intensity ratio by:
2.8.1

business unit or facility;

2.8.2

country;

2.8.3

type of source;

2.8.4

type of activity.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-4
Intensity ratios can be provided for, among others:
•

products (such as metric tons of CO2 emissions
per unit produced);

•

services (such as metric tons of CO2 emissions
per function or per service);

•

sales (such as metric tons of CO2 emissions
per sales).

Organization-specific metrics (denominators)
can include:
•
•

units of product;
production volume (such as metric tons, liters,
or MWh);

•

size (such as m2 floor space);

•

number of full-time employees;

•

monetary units (such as revenue or sales).

The reporting organization can report an intensity
ratio for direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions combined, using the figures reported
in Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2.
Background
Intensity ratios define GHG emissions in the context
of an organization-specific metric. Many organizations
track environmental performance with intensity ratios,
which are often called normalized environmental
impact data.
GHG emissions intensity expresses the amount of
GHG emissions per unit of activity, output, or any
other organization-specific metric. In combination
with an organization’s absolute GHG emissions,
reported in Disclosures 305-1, 305-2, and 305-3,
GHG emissions intensity helps to contextualize
the organization’s efficiency, including in relation
to other organizations.
See references 13, 14, and 19 in the References section.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

13

Disclosure 305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2
equivalent.
b. 	Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.

Disclosure

305-5

c. 	Base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it.
d. 	Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2),
and/or other indirect (Scope 3).
e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.9

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-5, the reporting organization shall:
2.9.1 	exclude reductions resulting from reduced production capacity or outsourcing;
2.9.2 	use the inventory or project method to account for reductions;
2.9.3 	calculate an initiative’s total reductions of GHG emissions as the sum of its associated
primary effects and any significant secondary effects;
2.9.4 	if reporting two or more Scope types, report the reductions for each separately;
2.9.5 	report reductions from offsets separately.

Reporting recommendations
2.10 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-5, the reporting organization should, if subject
to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-5
The reporting organization can prioritize disclosing
reduction initiatives that were implemented in the
reporting period, and that have the potential to
contribute significantly to reductions. Reduction
initiatives and their targets can be described in the
management approach for this topic.
Reduction initiatives can include:

Guidance for clause 2.9.2
The inventory method compares reductions to a base
year. The project method compares reductions to a
baseline. Further details on these methods are available in
references 15 and 16 in the References section.

•

process redesign;

Guidance for clause 2.9.3

•

conversion and retrofitting of equipment;

•

fuel switching;

•

changes in behavior;

•

offsets.

Primary effects are the elements or activities designed
to reduce GHG emissions, such as carbon storage.
Secondary effects are smaller, unintended consequences
of a reduction initiative, including changes to production
or manufacture, which result in changes to GHG
emissions elsewhere. See reference 14 in the
References section.

The organization can report reductions disaggregated
by initiatives or groups of initiatives.
This disclosure can be used in combination with
Disclosures 305-1, 305-2, and 305-3 of this Standard to
monitor the reduction of GHG emissions with reference
to the organization’s targets, or to regulations and trading
systems at international or national level.

14

See references 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 19 in the
References section.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

Disclosure 305-6
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

305-6

a. 	Production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane)
equivalent.
b. 	Substances included in the calculation.
c. 	Source of the emission factors used.
d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.11 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-6, the reporting organization shall:
2.11.1 	calculate the production of ODS as the amount of ODS produced, minus the amount
destroyed by approved technologies, and minus the amount entirely used as feedstock
in the manufacture of other chemicals;
Production of ODS
=
ODS produced
–
ODS destroyed by approved technologies
–
ODS entirely used as feedstock in the manufacture
of other chemicals
2.11.2 exclude ODS recycled and reused.
Reporting recommendations
2.12 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-6, the reporting organization should:
2.12.1

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.12.2	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the
ODS data by:
		

2.12.2.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.12.2.2

country;

		

2.12.2.3

type of source;

		

2.12.2.4

type of activity.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

15

Disclosure 305-6
Continued
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 305-6
The reporting organization can report separate
or combined data for the substances included in
the calculation.
Background
Measuring ODS production, imports, and exports
helps to indicate how an organization complies with
legislation. This is particularly relevant if the organization
produces or uses ODS in its processes, products and
services and is subject to phase-out commitments.
Results on ODS phase-out help to indicate the
organization’s position in any markets affected by
regulation on ODS.

16

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

This disclosure covers the substances included in
Annexes A, B, C, and E of the ‘Montreal Protocol’
as well as any other ODS produced, imported, or
exported by an organization.
See references 1, 2, 8 and 9 in the References section.

Disclosure 305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant
air emissions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following:
Disclosure

305-7

		 i.

NOX

		 ii. SOX
		

iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP)

		

iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

		

v.

		

vi. Particulate matter (PM)

		

vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations

Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)

b. Source of the emission factors used.
c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.13	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-7, the reporting organization shall
select one of the following approaches for calculating significant air emissions:
2.13.1 	Direct measurement of emissions (such as online analyzers);
2.13.2 	Calculation based on site-specific data;
2.13.3 	Calculation based on published emission factors;
2.13.4 	Estimation. If estimations are used due to a lack of default figures, the organization shall
indicate the basis on which figures were estimated.
Reporting recommendations
2.14 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-7, the reporting organization should:
2.14.1

if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to selecting them;

2.14.2	where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the air emissions
data by:
		

2.14.2.1

business unit or facility;

		

2.14.2.2

country;

		

2.14.2.3

type of source;

		

2.14.2.4

type of activity.

Guidance
See references 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10 in the References section.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

17

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 1995: The Science of Climate Change,
Contribution of Working Group I to the Second Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, 1995.

2.

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis,
Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change, 2007.

3.

United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention, ‘Geneva Protocol concerning
the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds or their Transboundary Fluxes’, 1991.

4.

United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention, ‘Gothenburg Protocol to Abate
Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone’, 1999.

5.

United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention, ‘Helsinki Protocol on the
Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or their Transboundary Fluxes’, 1985.

6.

United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention, ‘Sofia Protocol concerning
the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or their Transboundary Fluxes’, 1988.

7.

United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and World Meteorological Organization (WMO),
Integrated Assessment of Black Carbon and Tropospheric Ozone, 2011.

8.

United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), ‘Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete
the Ozone Layer’, 1987.

9.

United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Standards and Codes of Practice to Eliminate Dependency
on Halons - Handbook of Good Practices in the Halon Sector, 2001.

10.

United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Convention, ‘Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic
Pollutants (POPs)’, Annex A, B, and C, 2009.

11.

United Nations (UN) Framework Convention, ‘United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change’, 1992.

12.

United Nations (UN) Protocol, ‘Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change’, 1997.

Other relevant references:

18

13.

Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Investor CDP Information Request, updated annually.

14.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’, Revised Edition, 2004.

15.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard’, 2011.

16.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘GHG Protocol for Project Accounting’, 2005.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

17.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard’, 2011.

18.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. An amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’, 2015.

19.

World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD),
‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting Notes, No. 1, Accounting and Reporting Standard
Amendment’, 2012.

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

19

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
20

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-068-9

GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
2016

GRI

306

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination
	
Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills
	
Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff

5
6
6
7
9
10
11

References

12

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste sets out reporting requirements on the topic of effluents
and waste. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or
geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 300 series (Environmental
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font and
indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to be
read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water, and ecosystems.
GRI 306 addresses the topic of effluents and waste. This
includes water discharges; the generation, treatment and
disposal of waste; and spills of chemicals, oils, fuels, and
other substances.
The impacts of water discharges vary depending on the
quantity, quality, and destination of the discharge. The
unmanaged discharge of effluents with a high chemical
or nutrient load (principally nitrogen, phosphorous, or
potassium) can affect aquatic habitats, the quality of an
available water supply, and an organization’s relationship
with communities and other water users.
The generation, treatment and disposal of waste –
including its improper transportation – can also pose
harm to human health and the environment. This is of
particular concern if waste is transported to countries
lacking the infrastructure and regulations to handle it.
Spills of chemicals, oils, and fuels, among other substances,
can potentially affect soil, water, air, biodiversity, and
human health.

4

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

These concepts are covered by the Basel and Ramsar
Conventions, and in key instruments of the International
Maritime Organization: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to effluents and
waste, and how it manages these impacts.

GRI 306:
Effluents and Waste

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination
• Disclosure 306-2 W
 aste by type and disposal method
• Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills
• Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
• Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for effluents and waste using
GRI 103: Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for effluents
and waste, the reporting organization can also disclose
expenditures on:

•

treatment and disposal of waste;

•

clean-up costs, including costs for remediation
of spills as specified in Disclosure 306-3.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 306-1
Water discharge by quality and destination
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by:
		 i.

Disclosure

306-1

destination;

		

ii. quality of the water, including treatment method;

		

iii. whether the water was reused by another organization.

b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization shall:
2.1.1 	exclude collected rainwater and domestic sewage from the volume of planned and unplanned water discharges;
2.1.2 	if it does not have a meter to measure water discharges, estimate the volume of planned
and unplanned water discharges by subtracting the approximate volume consumed on-site
from the volume withdrawn as specified in Disclosure 303-1 of GRI 303: Water.
Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1 	if it discharges effluents or process water, report water quality in terms of total volumes of effluent
using standard effluent parameters, such as Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) or Total Suspended
Solids (TSS);
2.2.2

select parameters that are consistent with those used in the organization’s sector.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 306-1

Guidance for clause 2.2

In the context of this Standard, ‘water discharge’
includes water effluents discharged over the course
of the reporting period. These effluents can be
discharged to subsurface waters, surface waters,
sewers that lead to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands,
treatment facilities, and ground water, either:

The specific choice of water quality parameters can vary
depending on the organization’s products, services, and
operations.

•

through a defined discharge point (point source
discharge);

•

over land in a dispersed or undefined manner
(non-point source discharge);

•

as wastewater removed from the organization
via truck.

Discharge of collected rainwater and domestic sewage
is not considered to be water discharge.
6

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Water quality metrics can vary depending on national
or regional regulations.

Disclosure 306-2
Waste by type and disposal method
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods
where applicable:
		 i.

Reuse

		 ii. Recycling
		 iii. Composting

Disclosure

306-2

		

iv. Recovery, including energy recovery

		

v.

		

vi. Deep well injection

		

vii. Landfill

		

viii. On-site storage

		

ix. Other (to be specified by the organization)

Incineration (mass burn)

b. 	Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods
where applicable:
		 i.

Reuse

		 ii. Recycling
		 iii. Composting
		

iv. Recovery, including energy recovery

		

v.

		

vi. Deep well injection

		

vii. Landfill

		

viii. On-site storage

		

ix. Other (to be specified by the organization)

Incineration (mass burn)

c. How the waste disposal method has been determined:
		

i.

Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed

		

ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor

		

iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor

2.3	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.3.1

identify hazardous waste as defined by national legislation at the point of generation;

2.3.2

exclude non-hazardous wastewater from the calculation of non-hazardous waste;

2.3.3 	if no weight data are available, estimate the weight using available information on waste
density and volume collected, mass balances, or similar information.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

7

Disclosure 306-2
Continued
Guidance
Background
Information about waste disposal methods reveals the
extent to which an organization has managed the balance
between disposal options and uneven environmental
impacts. For example, land filling and recycling create
very different types of environmental impacts and
residual effects. Most waste minimization strategies
emphasize prioritizing options for reuse, recycling, and
then recovery over other disposal options to minimize
ecological impacts.

8

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Disclosure 306-3
Significant spills
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills.
b. 	The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization’s
financial statements:
Disclosure

306-3

		

i.

Location of spill;

		

ii. Volume of spill;

		

iii.	Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or
water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly
soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization).

c. Impacts of significant spills.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

9

Disclosure 306-4
Transport of hazardous waste
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total weight for each of the following:
Disclosure

306-4

		

i.

Hazardous waste transported

		

ii. Hazardous waste imported

		

iii. Hazardous waste exported

		

iv. Hazardous waste treated

b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally.
c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
2.4	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-4, the reporting organization shall:
2.4.1

convert volumes to an estimate of weight;

2.4.2 	in response to Disclosure 306-4-c, provide a brief explanation of the methodology used
for making these conversions.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 306-4
This disclosure covers waste deemed hazardous under
the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and
VIII (see reference 1 in the References section). It covers
hazardous waste transported by or on behalf of the
reporting organization within the reporting period
by destination, including transport across operational
boundaries and within operations.
The organization can calculate the total weight of
transported hazardous waste using the following
equation:


Total weight of hazardous waste
transported by destination

Exported hazardous waste can be calculated as the
proportion of the total amount of transported hazardous
waste by destination that is transported from the
organization to locations abroad, including all waste
that leaves the boundaries of the organization to cross
international borders and excluding transportation
between different locations of the organization.
For treated waste, the organization can identify:

=

•

Weight of hazardous waste transported to the
organization by destination from external sources/
suppliers not owned by the organization

the portion of the total amount of transported
and exported waste that the organization has
treated, by destination;

•

the portion of the total amount of waste, by
destination, that is treated by external sources/
suppliers, that has been transported, exported,
or imported by the organization.

+
Weight of hazardous waste transported from the
organization by destination to external sources/
suppliers not owned by the organization
+
Weight of hazardous waste transported nationally
and internationally by destination between locations
owned, leased, or managed by the organization

10

Imported hazardous waste can be calculated as the
total weight of hazardous waste transported across
international borders and which enters the boundaries
of the organization, by destination, excluding waste
transported between different locations of the
organization.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Disclosure 306-5
Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

306-5

a. 	Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges and/or
runoff, including information on:
		

i.

the size of the water body and related habitat;

		

ii.	whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a nationally
or internationally protected area;

		

iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species.

2.5	When compiling the information in Disclosure 306-5, the reporting organization shall report
water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff that
meet one or more of the following criteria:
2.5.1 	Discharges account for an average of five percent or more of the annual average volume
of the water body;
2.5.2 	Discharges that, on the advice of appropriate professionals, such as municipal authorities,
are known to have or are highly likely to have significant impacts on the water body and
associated habitats;
2.5.3 	Discharges to water bodies that are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive
due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system,
or that support a particular endangered species of plant or animal;
2.5.4 	Any discharge to a wetland listed in the Ramsar Convention or any other nationally
or internationally proclaimed conservation area regardless of the rate of discharge;
2.5.5 	The water body has been identified as having a high biodiversity value, such as species
diversity and endemism, or total number of protected species;
2.5.6 	The water body has been identified as having a high value or importance to local
communities.
Guidance
Background
This disclosure is a qualitative counterpart to the
quantitative disclosures of water discharge, and helps to
describe the impact of these discharges. Discharges and
runoff affecting aquatic habitats can have a significant
impact on the availability of water resources.
See references 4 and 5 in the References section.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

11

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

Basel Convention, ‘Ban Amendment to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements
of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal’, 1995.

2.

International Maritime Organization (IMO) Convention, ‘Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution
by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter’ (London Convention), 1972.

3.

International Maritime Organization (IMO) Convention, ‘International Convention for the Prevention
of Pollution from Ships (Marpol)’, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978.

4.

Ramsar Convention, ‘The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl
Habitat’, 1994.

Other relevant references:
5.

12

International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Red List of Threatened Species,
http://www.iucnredlist.org/, accessed on 1 September 2016.

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
13

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-069-6

GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
2016

GRI

307

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations

5
6
6

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance sets out reporting requirements on the topic of
environmental compliance. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 300 series
(Environmental topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water, and ecosystems.
GRI 307 addresses the topic of environmental
compliance, covering an organization’s compliance
with environmental laws and/or regulations. This includes
compliance with international declarations, conventions
and treaties, as well as national, sub-national, regional,
and local regulations.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
on an organization’s compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, and with other instruments concerned with
environmental protection.
Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also be
found in:
•

GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance

If the reporting organization has identified both topics
as material, it can combine its disclosures for GRI 307 and
GRI 419. For example, if the organization uses the same
approach for managing both topics, it can provide one
combined explanation of its management approach.

4

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

GRI 307:
Environmental
Compliance

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for environmental compliance
using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
environmental compliance, the reporting organization
can also disclose expenditures on insurance for
environmental liability.

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 307-1
Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws
and/or regulations in terms of:
Disclosure

307-1

		

i.

total monetary value of significant fines;

		

ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions;

		

iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms.

b. 	If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or
regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 307-1, the reporting organization should
include administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to comply with environmental laws and/or
regulations, including:
2.1.1

international declarations, conventions, and treaties;

2.1.2

national, sub-national, regional, and local regulations;

2.1.3 	voluntary environmental agreements with regulating authorities that are considered binding
and developed as a substitute for implementing new regulations;
2.1.4 	cases brought against the organization through the use of international dispute mechanisms or
national dispute mechanisms supervised by government authorities;
2.1.5 	cases of non-compliance related to spills as reported with GRI 306: Effluents and Waste.
Guidance

6

Guidance for Disclosure 307-1

Background

In certain jurisdictions, voluntary environmental
agreements with regulating authorities can be referred
to as ‘covenants’.

Non-compliance within an organization can indicate
the ability of management to ensure that operations
conform to certain performance parameters. In some
circumstances, non-compliance can lead to clean-up
obligations or other costly environmental liabilities.
The strength of an organization’s compliance record
can also affect its ability to expand operations or
gain permits.

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
7

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-070-2

GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
2016

GRI

308

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
	
Disclosure 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and
actions taken

5
7
7

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of supplier environmental assessment. This Standard can be used by an organization of
any size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

8

Introduction

A. Overview

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment is
a topic-specific GRI Standard in the 300 series
(Environmental topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards

1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.

Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101

An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment, if this is
one of its material topics.

Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.

2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report specific information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance

Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also
be found in:

The GRI Standards include:

•

Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply
with recommendations or guidance in order to claim
that a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.

If the reporting organization has identified both topics as
material, it can combine its disclosures for GRI 308 and
GRI 414. For example, if the organization uses the same
approach for managing both topics, it can provide one
combined explanation of its management approach.

Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including
land, air, water and ecosystems.
GRI 308 addresses the topic of supplier environmental
assessment.
An organization might be involved with impacts either
through its own activities or as a result of its business
relationships with other parties. Due diligence is
expected of an organization in order to prevent and
mitigate negative environmental impacts in the supply
chain. These include impacts the organization either
causes or contributes to, or that are directly linked to
its activities, products, or services by its relationship
with a supplier.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s approach to preventing and
mitigating negative environmental impacts in its
supply chain. Suppliers can be assessed for a range
of environmental criteria such as impacts related to
water, emissions, or energy. Some of these criteria
are covered in other GRI Standards in the 300 series
(Environmental topics).

4

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment

GRI 308:
Supplier Environmental
Assessment

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
• Disclosure 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and
actions taken

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for supplier environmental
assessment using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for supplier
environmental assessment, the reporting organization
can also disclose:

•

processes used, such as due diligence, to identify
and assess significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts in the supply chain;

•

•

how the organization identifies and prioritizes
suppliers for assessment of environmental impacts;

the systems used to screen new suppliers
using environmental criteria, and a list of
the environmental criteria used to screen
new suppliers;

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
•

•

6

actions taken to address the significant actual and
potential negative environmental impacts identified
in the supply chain, and whether the actions are
intended to prevent, mitigate, or remediate
the impacts;
how expectations are established and
defined in contracts with suppliers to promote
the prevention, mitigation, and remediation
of significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts, including targets
and objectives;

•

whether suppliers are incentivized and rewarded
for the prevention, mitigation, and remediation
of significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts;

•

practices for assessing and auditing suppliers
and their products and services using
environmental criteria;

•

a list of the type, system, scope, frequency, current
implementation of assessment and audit, and which
parts of the supply chain have been certified and
audited;

•

the systems in place to assess the potential
negative impacts of terminating a relationship with
a supplier as a result of assessing the supplier for
environmental impacts, and the organization’s
strategy to mitigate those impacts.

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

Environmental criteria or assessments of suppliers for
environmental impacts can include the topics in the
300 series (Environmental topics).
Negative impacts can include those that are either
caused or contributed to by an organization, or that are
directly linked to its activities, products, or services by its
relationship with a supplier.
Assessments can be informed by audits, contractual
reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and
grievance mechanisms.
Actions taken to address environmental impacts
can include changing an organization’s procurement
practices, adjusting performance expectations, capacity
building, training, changes to processes, as well as
terminating supplier relationships.
Assessments and audits of suppliers and their
products and services using environmental criteria
can be undertaken by an organization, by a second
party, or by a third party.

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 308-1
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

308-1

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 308-1
Environmental criteria can include the topics in the
300 series (Environmental topics).
Background
This disclosure informs stakeholders about the
percentage of suppliers selected or contracted subject
to due diligence processes for environmental impacts.

An organization is expected to initiate due diligence
as early as possible in the development of a new
relationship with a supplier.
Impacts may be prevented or mitigated at the stage
of structuring contracts or other agreements, as well
as via ongoing collaboration with suppliers.

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

7

Disclosure 308-2
Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts.
Disclosure

308-2

b. 	Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts.
c. Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply chain.
d. 	Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative
environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment.
e. 	Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental
impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why.

Reporting recommendations
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 308-2, the reporting organization should,
where it provides appropriate context on significant impacts, provide a breakdown of the information by:
2.1.1 	the location of the supplier;
2.1.2 	the significant actual and potential negative environmental impact.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 308-2

Background

Negative impacts include those that are either caused
or contributed to by an organization, or that are directly
linked to its activities, products, or services by its
relationship with a supplier.

This disclosure informs stakeholders about an
organization’s awareness of significant actual and
potential negative environmental impacts in the
supply chain.

Assessments for environmental impacts can include the
topics in the 300 series (Environmental topics).
Assessments can be made against agreed performance
expectations that are set and communicated to the
suppliers prior to the assessment.
Assessments can be informed by audits, contractual
reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and
grievance mechanisms.
Improvements can include changing an organization’s
procurement practices, the adjustment of performance
expectations, capacity building, training, and changes
to processes.

8

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations
“Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.

2.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

3.

United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue of Human Rights
and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-071-9

GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT
2016

GRI

401

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 401: Employment

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
	
Disclosure 401-2 Benefits

provided to full-time employees that are not provided
to temporary or part-time employees
Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave

5
7
7

References

10

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 401: Employment sets out reporting requirements on the topic of employment. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 401: Employment 2016

8
9

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 401: Employment is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 401: Employment, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 401: Employment 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social dimension
of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on the
social systems within which it operates.
GRI 401 addresses the topic of employment. This
includes an organization’s approach to employment
or job creation, that is, an organization’s approach
to hiring, recruitment, retention and related practices,
and the working conditions it provides. GRI 401 also
covers the employment and working conditions in
an organization’s supply chain.
An employment relationship is a legal relationship
between a worker and an organization that confers
rights and obligations to both parties. This relationship
is usually the means for determining whether
employment or labor law is applicable or whether
commercial law is applicable.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the International Labour Organization, the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development, and
the United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to employment,
and how it manages them.

4

GRI 401: Employment 2016

Conditions of work are also covered in detail in other
Standards:
•

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations

•

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety

•

GRI 404: Training and Education

•

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity

•

GRI 406: Non-discrimination

In addition, Disclosure 102-8 in GRI 102: General
Disclosures requires information on employees and other
workers performing an organization’s activities, such as
the total number of employees by employment contract
(permanent and temporary), by gender.

GRI 401:
Employment

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
• Disclosure 401-2 B
 enefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided
to temporary or part-time employees
• Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for employment using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 401: Employment 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Reporting recommendations
1.2

The reporting organization should describe:
1.2.1	its policies or practices covering the relationships under which work is performed for
the organization;
1.2.2	actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken within its
supply chain does not take place within appropriate institutional and legal frameworks;
1.2.3	actions taken to determine and address situations where persons working for suppliers
are not provided the social and labor protection that they are entitled to receive by
national labor law;
1.2.4	actions taken to determine and address situations where working conditions in its supply
chain do not meet international labor standards or national labor law;
1.2.5	actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken in its supply
chain is inadequately remunerated;
1.2.6	actions taken to determine and address situations of disguised employment relationships
where workers in its supply chain are falsely considered to be self-employed or where
there is no legally recognized employer;
1.2.7	actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken in its supply
chain that is performed at home is not subject to legally recognized contracts.

Guidance
Guidance for clause 1.2
Policies or practices covering the relationships under
which work is performed for an organization can
include recognized employment relationships, the use
of employees of other organizations (such as workers
supplied by agencies), and the extent to which work
is performed on a temporary or part-time basis.
A description of policies and practices can include
policies and practices with respect to discrimination,
compensation, promotion, privacy, human resource
development and industrial relations.
Work taking place within an appropriate institutional
and legal framework usually entails a recognized
employment relationship with an identifiable and legally
recognized employer.
Conditions of work can include compensation, working
time, rest periods, holidays, disciplinary and dismissal
practices, maternity protection, the workplace
environment, and occupational health and safety. They
can also include the quality of living accommodations
where provided, and welfare matters, such as safe
drinking water, canteens and access to medical services.

6

GRI 401: Employment 2016

Adequately remunerated work is work where wages
and compensation for a standard working week,
excluding overtime, meet legal and industry minimum
standards, and are sufficient to meet the basic needs
of workers and their families, and to provide them with
some discretionary income. Actions taken to address
situations where work is inadequately remunerated
can include:
•

dialogue with suppliers regarding the relationship
of the prices paid to suppliers and the wages
paid to workers;

•

changes to an organization’s procurement practices;

•

support for collective bargaining to
determine wages;

•

determining the extent that overtime is used,
whether it is mandatory, and whether it is
compensated at a premium rate.

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 401-1
New employee hires and employee turnover
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group,
gender and region.

Disclosure

401-1

b. 	Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group,
gender and region.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 401-1, the reporting organization
shall use the total employee numbers at the end of the reporting period to calculate the
rates of new employee hires and employee turnover.
Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 401-1, the reporting organization should use data
from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number of employees.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 401-1
An organization can use the following age groups:
•
•
•

Under 30 years old;
30-50 years old;
Over 50 years old.

Background
The number, age, gender, and region of an organization’s
new employee hires can indicate its strategy and ability
to attract diverse, qualified employees. This information
can signify the organization’s efforts to implement
inclusive recruitment practices based on age and
gender. It can also signify the optimal use of available
labor and talent in different regions.

A high rate of employee turnover can indicate levels
of uncertainty and dissatisfaction among employees.
It can also signal a fundamental change in the structure
of an organization’s core operations. An uneven
pattern of turnover by age or gender can indicate
incompatibility or potential inequity in the workplace.
Turnover results in changes to the human and
intellectual capital of the organization and can impact
productivity. Turnover has direct cost implications
either in terms of reduced payroll or greater expenses
for the recruitment of employees.

GRI 401: Employment 2016

7

Disclosure 401-2
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided
to temporary or part-time employees
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided
to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include,
as a minimum:

Disclosure

401-2

		

i.

life insurance;

		

ii. health care;

		

iii. disability and invalidity coverage;

		

iv. parental leave;

		

v.

		

vi. stock ownership;

		

vii. others.

retirement provision;

b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.
2.3	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 401-2, the reporting organization shall
exclude in-kind benefits such as provision of sports or child day care facilities, free meals during
working time, and similar general employee welfare programs.
Guidance
Background
Data reported under this disclosure provide a
measure of an organization’s investment in human
resources and the minimum benefits it offers its fulltime employees. The quality of benefits for full-time
employees is a key factor in retaining employees.

8

GRI 401: Employment 2016

Disclosure 401-3
Parental leave
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender.
b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender.
Disclosure

401-3

c.	Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental
leave ended, by gender.
d.	Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were
still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender.
e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender.

Reporting recommendations
2.4 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 401-3, the reporting organization should use the
following formulas to calculate the return to work and retention rates:

Return to work rate

Retention rate

=

=

Total number of employees that did return
to work after parental leave
Total number of employees due to return to work
after taking parental leave

Total number of employees retained 12 months after
returning to work following a period of parental leave
Total number of employees returning from parental leave
in the prior reporting period(s)

x 100

x 100

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 401-3
Employees entitled to parental leave means those
employees that are covered by organizational policies,
agreements or contracts that contain parental leave
entitlements.
To determine who returned to work after parental
leave ended and were still employed 12 months later,
an organization can consult records from the prior
reporting periods.
Background
Many countries have introduced legislation to provide
parental leave. The aim of the legislation is to allow
employees to take leave and return to work in the
same or a comparable position.

The application of legislation varies according to
interpretation by government, employers and
employees. Many women are discouraged from taking
leave and returning to work by employer practices that
affect their employment security, remuneration and
career path. Many men are not encouraged to take
the leave to which they are entitled.
Equitable gender choice for maternity and paternity
leave, and other leave entitlements, can lead to the
greater recruitment and retention of qualified
employees. It can also boost employee morale and
productivity. Men’s uptake of paternity leave options
can indicate the degree to which an organization
encourages fathers to take such leave. Men taking
advantage of leave entitlements positively impacts
women to take such leave without prejudicing their
career path.

GRI 401: Employment 2016

9

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 102, ‘Social Security (Minimum Standards)
Convention’, 1952.
2.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 121, ‘Employment Injury Benefits Convention’, 1964.

3. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 128, ‘Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits
Convention’, 1967.
4. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 130, ‘Medical Care and Sickness Benefits
Convention’, 1969.
5. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 132, ‘Holidays with Pay Convention (Revised)’, 1970.
6. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 140, ‘Paid Educational Leave Convention’, 1974.
7. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 156, ‘Workers with Family Responsibilities
Convention’, 1981.
8. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 157, ‘Maintenance of Social Security Rights
Convention’, 1982.
9. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 168, ‘Employment Promotion and Protection
against Unemployment Convention’, 1988.
10. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 183, ‘Maternity Protection Convention’, 2000.
11. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration, ‘Declaration Concerning the Aims and Purposes
of the International Labour Organization (Declaration of Philadelphia)’, 1944.
12. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration, ‘Declaration of Social Justice for a Fair
Globalization’, 2008.
13.

International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Decent Work’, 1999.

14. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 198, ‘Employment Relationship
Recommendation’, 2006.
15. 	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.
16. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
17.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Protection of the Rights
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families’, 1990.

10

GRI 401: Employment 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
11

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-072-6

GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT
RELATIONS
2016

GRI

402

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes

5
6
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of labor/management relations. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size,
type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations is a
topic-specific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.

The disclosures in this Standard can provide
information about an organization’s impacts related
to labor/management relations, and how it manages
these impacts.
Reporting on collective bargaining is covered in more
detail in GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective
Bargaining. In addition, Disclosure 102-41 in GRI 102:
General Disclosures requires reporting on the
percentage of total employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 402 addresses the topic of labor/management
relations. This covers an organization’s consultative
practices with employees and their representatives,
including its approach to communicating significant
operational changes.
An organization’s consultation practices are expected
to be aligned with relevant international norms
and standards.
Collective bargaining can play an important role in
an organization’s consultation practices. Collective
bargaining refers to all negotiations which take place
between one or more employers or employers'
organizations, on the one hand, and one or more
workers' organizations (trade unions), on the other,
for determining working conditions and terms of
employment or for regulating relations between
employers and workers.1
These concepts are covered in key instruments
of the International Labour Organization and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.

1 This definition is based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

4

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

GRI 402:
Labor/Management
Relations

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for labor/management relations
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 402-1
Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

402-1

a. 	Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives
prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially
affect them.
b. 	For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period
and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 402-1
Minimum notice periods can be found in corporate
policies and standard employment contracts. Different
policy statements can exist at a regional level.
An organization can identify the collective bargaining
agreements referred to in Disclosure 102-41 of
GRI 102: General Disclosures, and review the notice
period clauses within these documents.
Background
Organizations are expected to provide reasonable
notice of significant operational changes to employees
and their representatives, as well as to appropriate
government authorities. Minimum notice periods
are a measure of an organization’s ability to maintain
employee satisfaction and motivation while
implementing significant changes to operations.
This disclosure provides insight into an organization’s
practice of ensuring timely discussion of significant
operational changes, and engaging with its employees
and their representatives to negotiate and implement
these changes, which can have positive or negative
implications for workers.

6

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

This disclosure also allows an assessment of an
organization’s consultation practices in relation to
expectations expressed in relevant international norms.
The essence of consultation is that management
takes the views of workers into account when
making specific decisions. Therefore, it is important
that consultation takes place before a decision is
made. Meaningful consultation includes the timely
provision of all information needed to make an
informed decision to workers or their representatives.
Genuine consultation involves dialogue; opinion surveys
and questionnaires are not considered consultation.
Timely and meaningful consultation allows the affected
parties to understand the impacts of the changes,
such as possible loss of employment. It also gives an
opportunity for them to work collectively to avoid
or mitigate negative impacts as much as possible
(see references 11 and 12 in the References section).
Consultative practices that result in good industrial
relations help to provide positive working environments,
reduce turnover, and minimize operational disruptions.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 87, ‘Freedom of Association and Protection
of the Right to Organise Convention’, 1948.

2.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 98, ‘Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining
Convention’, 1949.

3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 135, ‘Workers’ Representatives Convention’, 1971.

4.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

5.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 158, ‘Termination of Employment Convention’, 1982.

6.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), Key Indicators of the Labour Market (KILM),
http://www.ilo.org/global/statistics-and-databases/research-and-databases/kilm/lang--en/index.htm,
accessed on 1 September 2016.

7.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), LABORSTA Internet, http://laborsta.ilo.org/, accessed
on 1 September 2016.

8.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 91, ‘Collective Agreements
Recommendation’, 1951.

9.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 94, ‘Co-operation at the Level of the
Undertaking Recommendation’, 1952.

10.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 163, ‘Collective Bargaining Recommendation’, 1981.

11. 	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.
12. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-073-3

GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
AND SAFETY
2016

GRI

403

1

Contents
Introduction

3

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
	
Disclosure 403-1 W
 orkers representation in formal joint management–worker
health and safety committees
	
Disclosure 403-2 T
 ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities
	
Disclosure 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases
related to their occupation
Disclosure 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
with trade unions

5
7

References

12

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of occupational health and safety. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to
this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

7
8
10
11

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety is a
topic-speciﬁc GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety, if this is
one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.

Health and safety impacts can arise over the use
of unsafe equipment, machinery, processes, and
practices. They can also arise with the use of
dangerous substances, such as chemical, physical
and biological agents.
The promotion of health and well-being is to be
tempered by workers’ legitimate rights to medical
privacy, and limited to an organization’s genuine
occupational requirements. Within these limits, the
active promotion of health and safety can include
voluntary programs in areas such as mental health,
ergonomics, physical fitness or smoking cessation.

D. Background context

These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
International Labour Organization and the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development: see
References.

In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.

The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to occupational
health and safety, and how it manages these impacts.

GRI 403 addresses the topic of occupational health
and safety.
The right to a healthy and safe workplace is recognized
as a human right and is addressed in various authoritative
international instruments.
The health and safety of workers can be affected by
both the work they perform and the workplace where it
is performed. Therefore, an organization is expected to
be responsible for the occupational health and safety of:
•

all workers performing work that is controlled
by the organization;

•

all workers whose workplace is controlled by the
organization, whether or not their work is under
the control of the organization.

The principles of occupational health and safety
management systems include developing a policy,
analyzing and controlling health and safety risks,
providing training, and recording and investigating
health and safety incidents.
Health and safety at work involves both the
prevention of harm, and the promotion of
health and well-being.

4

The prevention of harm means adhering to high standards
and best practices with regards to a safe and healthy
working environment. Best practices include following the
industrial hygiene hierarchy of controls and its approach
of controlling hazards to prevent risk. Best practices also
include respect for human capacities and tolerances as
described by the sciences of ergonomics and toxicology.
They also include the implementation of the principles
of Process Safety Management.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and Safety

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 403-1 W
 orkers representation in formal joint management–worker
health and safety committees
• Disclosure 403-2 T
 ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost
days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities
• Disclosure 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related
to their occupation
• Disclosure 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
with trade unions

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for occupational health and safety
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
occupational health and safety, the reporting
organization can also describe assistance programs
about serious diseases for:
•
•

6

workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled
by the organization; and their families;
community members.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

This description can also include whether such programs
involve education and training, counseling, measures
relating to prevention and risk control for diseases,
or treatment.

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 403-1
Workers representation in formal joint management–worker
health and safety committees
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

403-1

a. 	The level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee
typically operates within the organization.
b. 	Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization,
that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 403-1-b, the reporting organization should explain
how the percentage was calculated, including any assumptions made, such as which workers were included
in the calculation.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 403-1
This disclosure covers formal health and safety
committees that help monitor, collect feedback
and advise on occupational safety programs. These
committees can exist at the facility level, or at the
multi-facility, regional, group or organizational levels.
A formal committee is a committee whose existence
and function are integrated in an organization’s
organizational and authority structure, and that operate
according to certain agreed, written rules.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-1-b
This disclosure covers workers performing work that is
under the direct control of the reporting organization, as
well as workers performing work at a site controlled by
the organization, even if the work itself is not controlled
by the organization.
This disclosure requires reporting the percentage
of workers represented by formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. It does not
require reporting the percentage of workers who
are members of these committees.

Background
Respect for the rights of workers and their participation
in health and safety decisions are key. This includes the
right of workers to:
•

know fully about the hazard of their work;

•

receive all necessary education and training
to perform work safely;

•

refuse unsafe work without fear of reprisal;

•

participate fully in the establishment and
implementation of occupational health and safety
policies, procedures, investigations and risk
assessments.

A health and safety committee with joint representation
can facilitate a positive health and safety culture. The use
of committees is one way to involve workers in driving
the improvement of occupational health and safety
in the workplace. Participation can be by means of
properly and independently elected worker health and
safety representatives, and through worker members of
joint management-worker health and safety committees.
This disclosure provides one measure of the extent
to which workers whose work, or workplace, is
controlled by an organization are actively involved
in health and safety.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

7

Disclosure 403-2
Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR),
absentee rate (AR), and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by:
		 i.
Disclosure

403-2

region;

		 ii. gender.
b. 	Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for all workers (excluding
employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, with a
breakdown by:
		 i.

region;

		 ii. gender.
c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics.
2.2	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 403-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.2.1 	indicate whether minor (first-aid level) injuries are included or excluded in the
injury rate (IR);
2.2.2 	include fatalities in the injury rate (IR);
2.2.3 	in calculating ‘lost days’, indicate:
			

2.2.3.1

whether ‘days’ means ‘calendar days’ or ‘scheduled work days’;

			

2.2.3.2 	at what point the ‘lost days’ count begins (for example, the day after
the accident or three days after the accident).

Reporting recommendations
2.3

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 403-2, the reporting organization should:
2.3.1 	report the occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), and absentee rate (AR)
for all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization,
with a breakdown by:

		

2.3.1.1

region;

		

2.3.1.2

gender;

2.3.2	explain how the information in Disclosure 403-2-b was calculated, including any assumptions made,
such as which workers were included in the calculation;
2.3.3 	in situations where national law follows the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification
of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (Code of Practice), state that fact and that practice
follows the law;
2.3.4	in situations where national law does not follow the ILO Code of Practice, indicate which system
of rules it applies and their relationship to the ILO Code of Practice.

8

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

Disclosure 403-2
Continued
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 403-2

Guidance for clauses 2.3.3 and 2.3.4

See also definitions of ‘absentee’ and ‘occupational
disease’ in the GRI Standards Glossary.

The ILO Code of Practice was developed for
the reporting, recording, and notification
of workplace accidents.

Guidance for Disclosure 403-2-c
An organization is expected to identify the system
used to track and report on health and safety incidents
and performance, and to ensure that this system covers
all significant operations and geographic locations.
In some cases, multiple systems can be used across
the organization.

Background
Low injury and absentee rates are generally linked
to positive trends in morale and productivity. This
disclosure shows whether health and safety management
practices are resulting in fewer occupational health and
safety incidents. Evaluating trends and patterns can also
indicate potential workplace inequity.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

9

Disclosure 403-3
Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases
related to their occupation
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

403-3

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Whether there are workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization,
involved in occupational activities who have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases.

Guidance
Background
This disclosure has specific relevance for organizations
working in countries with a high risk or incidence
of communicable diseases, and those in professions
that have a high incidence of specific diseases.
Preventing serious diseases contributes to health,
satisfaction, and low turnover rate.

10

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

Disclosure 403-4
Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
with trade unions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

a. Whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety.

403-4

b.	If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered
by these agreements.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 403-4

Background

Agreements at the local level typically address topics that
can include:

Formal agreements can promote the acceptance of
responsibilities by both parties and the development
of a positive health and safety culture. This disclosure
reveals the extent to which workers are actively
involved in formal, labor-management agreements
that determine health and safety management
arrangements.

•

personal protective equipment;

•

joint management-worker health and safety
committees;

•

participation of worker representatives in health
and safety inspections, audits, and accident
investigations;

•

training and education;

•

complaints mechanisms;

•

the right to refuse unsafe work;

•

periodic inspections.

Agreements at the global level typically address topics
that can include:
•

compliance with the ILO;

•

arrangements or structures for resolving
problems;

•

commitments regarding target performance
standards, or levels of practice to apply.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

11

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:

12

1.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational
Accidents and Diseases, 1996.

2.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 155, ‘Occupational Safety and Health Convention’
and related Protocol 155, 1981.

3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 161, ‘Occupational Health Services Convention’, 1985.

4.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and Health Management Systems
(ILO-OSH 2001), 2001.

5.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.

6.

	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
13

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-074-0

GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
2016

GRI

404

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 404: Training and Education

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
	
Disclosure 404-2 P
 rograms for upgrading employee skills and transition
assistance programs
Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
career development reviews

5
6
6

References

10

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 404: Training and education sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of training and education. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

8
9

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 404: Training and Education is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 404: Training and Education, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 404 addresses the topic of training and education.
This includes an organization’s approach to training
and upgrading employee skills, and performance and
career development reviews. It also includes transition
assistance programs to facilitate continued employability,
and the management of career endings due to
retirement or termination.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
International Labour Organization and the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development:
see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to training and
education, and how it manages these impacts.

4

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

GRI 404:
Training
and Education

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
• Disclosure 404-2 P
 rograms for upgrading employee skills and transition
assistance programs
• Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance
and career development reviews

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for training and education using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 404-1
Average hours of training per year per employee
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken
during the reporting period, by:

Disclosure

404-1

		 i.

gender;

		 ii. employee category.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information speciﬁed in Disclosure 404-1, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1 	express employee numbers as either head count or Full Time Equivalent (FTE), and disclose
and apply the approach consistently in the period, and between periods;
2.1.2 	use data from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number
of employees;
2.1.3 	draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
to identify the total number of employees by employee category.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 404-1
This disclosure provides insight into the scale of an
organization’s investment in training, and the degree
to which the investment is made across the entire
employee base.
In the context of this Standard, ‘training’ refers to:
•

all types of vocational training and instruction;

•

paid educational leave provided by an organization
for its employees;

•

training or education pursued externally and
paid for in whole or in part by an organization;

•

training on specific topics.

Training does not include on-site coaching
by supervisors.

6

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

To calculate the information in Disclosure 404-1,
the reporting organization can use the following
formulas:
Average training hours per employee
=
Total number of training hours provided to employees
Total number of employees
Average training hours per female
=
Total number of training hours provided
to female employees
Total number of female employees

Disclosure 404-1
Continued
Average training hours per male
=
Total number of training hours provided
to male employees
Total number of male employees
Average training hours per employee category
=
Total number of training hours provided
to each category of employees
Total number of employees in category
A number of calculations can be undertaken to report
on employee categories. These calculations are specific
to each organization.

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

7

Disclosure 404-2
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
assistance programs
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills.

404-2

b. 	Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 404-2

Background

Employee training programs that aim to upgrade
skills can include:

Programs for upgrading employee skills allow an
organization to plan skills acquisition that equips
employees to meet strategic targets in a changing
work environment. More skilled employees enhance
the organization’s human capital and contribute to
employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with
improved performance. For those facing retirement,
confidence and quality of work relations is improved
by the knowledge that they are supported in their
transition from work to retirement.

•

internal training courses;

•

funding support for external training or education;

•

the provision of sabbatical periods with guaranteed
return to employment.

Transition assistance programs provided to support
employees who are retiring or who have been
terminated can include:

8

•

pre-retirement planning for intended retirees;

•

retraining for those intending to continue working;

•

severance pay, which can take into account
employee age and years of service;

•

job placement services;

•

assistance (such as training, counselling)
on transitioning to a non-working life.

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

Disclosure 404-3
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance
and career development reviews
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

404-3

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received
a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period.

Reporting recommendations
2.2

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 404-3, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1 	use data from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number
of employees;
2.2.2 	draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
to identify the total number of employees by employee category.

Guidance
Background
This disclosure measures the extent to which
an organization regularly appraises employee
performance. This aids the personal development
of individual employees. It also contributes to skills
management and to the development of human
capital within the organization. This disclosure also
demonstrates the extent to which this system is
applied throughout the organization, and whether
there is inequity of access to these opportunities.

Regular performance and career development reviews
can also enhance employee satisfaction, which correlates
with improved organizational performance.This
disclosure helps demonstrate how an organization works
to monitor and maintain the skill sets of its employees.
When reported in conjunction with Disclosure
404-2, the disclosure also helps to illustrate how the
organization approaches skills enhancement.

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

9

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:

10

1.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 140, ‘Paid Educational Leave Convention’, 1974.

2.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 142, ‘Human Resources Development
Convention’, 1975.

3.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 155, ‘Occupational Safety and Health
Convention’ and related Protocol 155, 1981.

4.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 168, ‘Employment Promotion and
Protection against Unemployment Convention’, 1988.

5.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.

6.

	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
11

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-075-7

GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY
2016

GRI

405

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
	Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men

5
6
6
7

References

8

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of diversity and equal opportunity. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to
this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity is a
topic-specific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity, if this is
one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order to claim that
a report has been prepared in accordance with
the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social dimension
of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on the
social systems within which it operates.
GRI 405 addresses the topic of an organization’s approach
to diversity and equal opportunity at work.
When an organization actively promotes diversity and
equality at work, it can generate significant benefits for
both the organization and workers. For example, the
organization can gain access to a larger and more diverse
set of potential workers. These benefits also flow through
to society in general, as greater equality promotes social
stability and supports further economic development.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
International Labour Organization, the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the
United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to diversity and
equality at work, and how it manages these impacts.
Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also
be found in:
•
•

4

GRI 404: Training and Education
GRI 406: Non-discrimination

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

GRI 405:
Diversity and Equal
Opportunity

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
• Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for diversity and equal
opportunity using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for diversity
and equal opportunity, the reporting organization can
also describe the legal and socioeconomic environment
that provides opportunities for, and barriers to,
gender equity.

This can include the share of female workers performing
the organization’s activities, their equal remuneration,
and their participation at the highest governance level.

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following
diversity categories:
		 i.
Disclosure

405-1

		

Gender;

ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old;

		 iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups).
b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories:
		 i.

Gender;

		

ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old;

		

iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups).

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 405-1, the reporting organization should use
data from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number of employees.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 405-1

Background

Examples of governance bodies that exist within an
organization can be the board of directors, management
committee, or a similar body for a non-corporate
organization.

This disclosure provides a quantitative measure of
diversity within an organization and can be used in
conjunction with sectoral or regional benchmarks.
Comparisons between broad employee diversity and
management team diversity offer information on equal
opportunity. Information reported in this disclosure
also helps in assessing which issues can be of particular
relevance to certain segments of the governance bodies
or employees.

An organization can identify any other indicators of
diversity used in its own monitoring and recording
that are relevant for reporting.

6

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

Disclosure 405-2
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

405-2

a. 	Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category,
by significant locations of operation.
b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.

Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 405-2, the reporting organization should base
remuneration on the average pay of each gender grouping within each employee category.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 405-2

Background

The reporting organization can draw from the
information used for Disclosure 405-1 to identify the
total number of employees in each employee category by
gender.

An organization can take an active role in reviewing its
operations and decisions, in order to promote diversity,
eliminate gender bias, and support equal opportunity.
These principles apply equally to recruitment,
opportunities for advancement, and remuneration
policies. Equality of remuneration is also an important
factor in retaining qualified employees.

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

7

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 100, ‘Equal Remuneration Convention’, 1951.

2.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 111, ‘Discrimination (Employment and Occupation)
Convention’, 1958.

3.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.

4.

	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

5.

	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against
Women (CEDAW)’, 1979.

6.

	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination’, 1965.

7.

	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and
of Discrimination based on Religion and Belief’, 1981.

8.

	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination’, 1963.

9.

	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities’, 1992.

10. 	United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Declaration, ‘Declaration
on Race and Racial Prejudice’, 1978.
11. 	United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United
Nations Global Compact, ‘Women’s Empowerment Principles’, 2011.
12. 	United Nations (UN) Fourth World Conference on Women, ‘Beijing Declaration and Platform for
Action’, 1995.

8

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
9

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-076-4

GRI 406: NON­- DISCRIMINATION
2016

GRI

406

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 406: Non-discrimination

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken

5
6
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 406: Non-discrimination sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of non-discrimination. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type,
sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 406: Non-discrimination is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 406: Non-discrimination, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 406 addresses the topic of non-discrimination.
For the purpose of this Standard, discrimination is
defined as the act and the result of treating people
unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying
benefits, instead of treating each person fairly on the
basis of individual merit. Discrimination can also include
harassment. This is defined as a course of comments or
actions that are unwelcome, or should reasonably be
known to be unwelcome, to the person towards whom
they are addressed.
An organization is expected to avoid discriminating
against any person on any grounds, including avoiding
discrimination against workers at work. It is also
expected to avoid discriminating against customers
with respect to the provision of products and services,
or against any other stakeholder, including suppliers or
business partners.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
International Labour Organization, the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development,
and the United Nations (UN): see References.

4

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

A number of international conventions and declarations
address discrimination against specific groups of people or
on specific grounds. Examples include the UN Convention
on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against
Women (CEDAW) and the UN International Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to discrimination,
and how it manages them.

GRI 406:
Non-discrimination

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for non-discrimination using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 406-1
Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period.
b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following:
Disclosure

406-1

		

i.

Incident reviewed by the organization;

		

ii. Remediation plans being implemented;

		

iii. 	Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine
internal management review processes;

		

iv. Incident no longer subject to action.

2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 406-1, the reporting organization shall
include incidents of discrimination on grounds of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national
extraction, or social origin as defined by the ILO, or other relevant forms of discrimination involving
internal and/or external stakeholders across operations in the reporting period.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 406-1

Background

In the context of this disclosure, an ‘incident’ refers to a
legal action or complaint registered with the reporting
organization or competent authorities through a formal
process, or an instance of non-compliance identified
by the organization through established procedures.
Established procedures to identify instances of noncompliance can include management system audits,
formal monitoring programs, or grievance mechanisms.

According to ILO instruments, discrimination can
occur on the grounds of race, color, sex, religion,
political opinion, national extraction, and social origin.
Discrimination can also occur based on factors such
as age, disability, migrant status, HIV and AIDS, gender,
sexual orientation, genetic predisposition, and lifestyles,
among others.1

An incident is no longer subject to action if it is resolved,
the case is completed, or no further action is required
by the organization. For example, an incident for which
no further action is required can include cases that were
withdrawn or where the underlying circumstances that
led to the incident no longer exist.

The presence and effective implementation of policies
to avoid discrimination are a basic expectation
of socially responsible conduct.

1 Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Report I(B) - Equality at work: The continuing challenge - Global Report under the follow-up
to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, 2011.

6

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.

Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 100, ‘Equal Remuneration Convention’, 1951.
2.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 111, ‘Discrimination (Employment and Occupation)
Convention’, 1958.
3.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
4.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination
against Women (CEDAW)’, 1979.
5.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination’, 1965.
6.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights’, 1966,
and related Protocol.
7.	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance
and of Discrimination based on Religion and Belief’, 1981.
8.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination’, 1963.

9.	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National
or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities’, 1992.
10.	United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Declaration, ‘Declaration
on Race and Racial Prejudice’, 1978.
11.	United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United
Nations Global Compact, ‘Women’s Empowerment Principles’, 2011.
12.	United Nations (UN) Fourth World Conference on Women, ‘Beijing Declaration and Platform
for Action’, 1995.

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-077-1

GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
2016

GRI

407

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 5
1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
	
Disclosure 407-1 O
 perations and suppliers in which the right to freedom
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining sets out reporting requirements
on the topic of freedom of association and collective bargaining. This Standard can be
used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to
report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective
Bargaining is a topic-specific GRI Standard in the
400 series (Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining,
if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.

These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
International Labour Organization, the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the
United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to freedom of
association and collective bargaining, and how it manages
these impacts.
Disclosure 102-41 in GRI 102: General Disclosures
requires reporting on the percentage of total employees
covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social dimension
of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on the
social systems within which it operates.
GRI 407 addresses the topic of freedom of association
and collective bargaining.
Freedom of association is a human right as defined
by international declarations and conventions. In this
context, freedom of association refers to the right
of employers and workers to form, to join and to run
their own organizations without prior authorization
or interference by the state or any other entity.
The right of workers to collectively bargain the terms
and conditions of work is also an internationally
recognized human right. Collective bargaining refers to
all negotiations which take place between one or more
employers or employers' organizations, on the one hand,
and one or more workers' organizations (trade unions),
on the other, for determining working conditions and
terms of employment or for regulating relations
between employers and workers.1

1 This definition is based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

4

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

GRI 407:
Freedom of
Association and
Collective Bargaining

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 407-1 O
 perations and suppliers in which the right to freedom
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for freedom of association
and collective bargaining using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Reporting recommendations
1.2 	The reporting organization should describe any policy or policies considered likely to affect workers’
decisions to form or join a trade union, to bargain collectively or to engage in trade union activities.

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 407-1
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

407-1

a. 	Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective
bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of:
		

i.

type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier;

		

ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.

b. 	Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights
to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 407-1
The process for identifying operations and suppliers,
as specified in Disclosure 407-1, can reflect the
reporting organization’s approach to risk assessment on
this issue. It can also draw from recognized international
data sources, such as the various outcomes of the
ILO Supervisory bodies and the recommendations of
the ILO Committee of Freedom of Association (see
reference 4 in the References section).
When reporting the measures taken, the organization
can refer to the ILO ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles
Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy’
and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises for further guidance.
Background

It also aims to reveal actions that have been taken
to support these rights across an organization’s range
of operations. This disclosure does not require the
organization to express a specific opinion on the
quality of national legal systems.
Collective agreements can be at the level of the
organization; at the industry level, in countries where
that is the practice; or at both. Collective agreements
can cover specific groups of workers; for example,
those performing a specific activity or working at
a specific location.
An organization is expected to respect the rights
of workers to exercise freedom of association and
collective bargaining. It is also expected to not benefit
from or contribute to such violations through its
business relationships (e.g., suppliers).

This disclosure concerns an organization’s due diligence
with respect to any adverse impacts its activities have
had on the human rights of workers to form or join
trade unions and to bargain collectively. This can include
policies and processes with respect to the organization's
business relationships, including its suppliers. It can also
include the due diligence process to identify operations
and suppliers where these rights are at risk.

6

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 87, ‘Freedom of Association and Protection
of the Right to Organise Convention’, 1948.
2.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 98, ‘Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining
Convention’, 1949.
3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

4.	International Labour Organization (ILO), NORMLEX, Freedom of association cases,
http://www.ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:20060:0::NO:::, accessed on 1 September 2016.
5.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 163, ‘Collective Bargaining Recommendation’, 1981.

6.	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.
7.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
8.	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
9.

10.

United Nations (UN) International Bill of Rights:
•

United Nations (UN) Declaration, 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', 1948.

•

United Nations (UN) Convention, 'International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights', 1966.

•

United Nations (UN) Convention, 'International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural
Rights', 1966.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

11.	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue
of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-078-8

GRI 408: CHILD LABOR
2016

GRI

408

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 408: Child Labor

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
	Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents
of child labor

5
6

References

8

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 408: Child Labor sets out reporting requirements on the topic of child labor. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

GRI 408: Child Labor is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 408: Child Labor, if this is one of its material topics.

Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.

The minimum age for hazardous work is 18 years for
all countries. Hazardous child labor is defined by Article
3 (d) of ILO Convention 182 ‘Worst Forms of Child
Labour Convention’ as ‘work which, by its nature or the
circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to harm
the health, safety or morals of children.’
Due diligence is expected of an organization in order
to prevent the use of child labor within its activities.
It is also expected to avoid contributing to, or
becoming complicit in, the use of child labor through
its relationships with others (e.g., suppliers, clients).

Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.

These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
ILO, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development, and the United Nations: see References.

Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.

The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to child labor,
and how it manages these impacts.

An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social dimension
of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on the
social systems within which it operates.
GRI 408 addresses the topic of child labor. Abolishing
child labor is a key principle and objective of major
human rights instruments and legislation, and is the
subject of national legislation in almost all countries.
Child labor is work that ‘deprives children of their
childhood, their potential and their dignity, and
that is harmful to their physical or mental development
including by interfering with their education. Specifically,
it means types of work that are not permitted for
children below the relevant minimum age.’1
Child labor does not refer to youth employment or
to children working. It refers to a universally-recognized
human rights abuse. The internationally-agreed
understanding of the meaning of child labor is set
out in the International Labour Organization (ILO)
Convention 138 ‘Minimum Age Convention’.

1 International Labour Organization (ILO) and International Organisation of Employers (IOE), How to do business with respect for
children’s right to be free from child labour: ILO-IOE child labour guidance tool for business, 2015.

4

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

GRI 408:
Child Labor

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents
of child labor

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for child labor using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 408-1
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents
of child labor
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of:

Disclosure

408-1

		

i.

child labor;

		

ii. young workers exposed to hazardous work.

b. 	Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor either
in terms of:
		

i.

type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier;

		

ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.

c. 	Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the
effective abolition of child labor.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 408-1

Background

The process for identifying operations and suppliers,
as specified in Disclosure 408-1, can reflect the
reporting organization’s approach to risk assessment
on this issue. It can also draw from recognized
international data sources, such as the ILO Information
and reports on the application of Conventions and
Recommendations (see reference 1 in the
References section).

Child labor is subject to ILO Conventions 138
‘Minimum Age Convention’ (ILO Convention 138) and
182 ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’ (ILO
Convention 182).

When reporting the measures taken, the
organization can refer to the ILO ‘Tripartite
Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’ and Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises for
further guidance.
In the context of the GRI Standards, a ‘young worker’
is defined as a person above the applicable minimum
working age and younger than 18 years of age. Note that
Disclosure 408-1 does not require quantitative reporting
on child labor or the number of young workers. Rather,
it asks for reporting on the operations and suppliers
considered to have significant risk for incidents of child
labor or young workers exposed to hazardous work.

6

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

‘Child labor’ refers to an abuse, which is not to be
confused with ‘children working’ or with ‘young
persons working’, which may not be abuses as
stipulated in ILO Convention 138.
The minimum age for working differs by country. ILO
Convention 138 specifies a minimum age of 15 years
or the age of completion of compulsory schooling
(whichever is higher). However, there is an exception
for certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed and a minimum
age of 14 years might apply. These countries of exception
are specified by the ILO in response to special application
by the country concerned, and in consultation with
representative organizations of employers and workers.

Disclosure 408-1
Continued
ILO Convention 138 stipulates that ‘national laws
or regulations may permit the employment or work
of persons 13 to 15 years of age on light work which
is (a) not likely to be harmful to their health or
development; and (b) not such as to prejudice their
attendance at school, their participation in vocational
orientation or training programmes approved by the
competent authority or their capacity to benefit from
the instruction received’.
While child labor takes many different forms, a priority
is to eliminate without delay the worst forms of
child labor as defined by Article 3 of ILO Convention
182. This includes all forms of slavery or practices

similar to slavery (such as sale, trafficking, forced or
compulsory labor, serfdom, recruitment for armed
conflict); the use, procuring or offering of a child for
prostitution or illicit activities and any work that is
likely to harm the health, safety or morals of children.
ILO Convention 182 is intended to set priorities for
states; however, organizations are expected not to use
this convention to justify forms of child labor.
Child labor results in under-skilled and unhealthy
workers for tomorrow and perpetuates poverty across
generations, thus impeding sustainable development.
The abolition of child labor is therefore necessary for
both economic and human development.

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

7

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO), Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions
and Recommendations, Report III - Information and reports on the application of Conventions
and Recommendations, updated annually.
2.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 138, ‘Minimum Age Convention’, 1973.

3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 142, ‘Human Resources Development Convention’, 1975.

4.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 182, ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’, 1999.

5.	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.
6.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
7.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Rights of the Child’, 1989.

8.	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
9.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

10.	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue
of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.

8

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
9

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-079-5

GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
2016

GRI

409

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
	
Disclosure 409-1 O
 perations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of
forced or compulsory labor

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor sets out reporting requirements on the topic of
forced or compulsory labor. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size,
type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this
topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.

is under the supervision and control of a public
authority), human trafficking for the purpose of forced
labor, coercion in employment, forced labor linked
to exploitative labor contract systems, and debtinduced forced labor, also known as ‘debt-bondage’
or ‘bonded labor’.3
The victims are most likely from groups subject to
discrimination or performing work on an informal or
precarious basis. This can include women and girls
forced into prostitution, migrants trapped in debt
bondage, and sweatshop or farm workers, among
other groups.4
Due diligence is expected of an organization in order to
prevent and combat all forms of forced or compulsory
labor within its activities. It is also expected to avoid
contributing to or becoming linked to the use of forced
or compulsory labor through its relationships with others
(e.g., suppliers, clients).
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
ILO, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development, and the United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to forced or
compulsory labor, and how it manages these impacts.
Disclosures on the related topic of child labor can be
found in:
•

GRI 408: Child Labor

GRI 409 addresses the topic of forced or compulsory
labor.
Not to be subjected to forced or compulsory labor is
a fundamental human right. According to International
Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29 ‘Forced
Labour Convention’, forced or compulsory labor is
defined as ‘all work or service which is exacted from any
person under the menace of any penalty and for which
the said person has not offered himself voluntarily.’1
Forced and compulsory labor affects all world regions,
countries, and economic sectors, and includes workers
in both formal and informal employment.2
Some of the most common forms of forced labor include
forced labor in prisons (except for prisoners that have
been convicted in a court of law, and whose labor

1 International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, ‘Forced Labour Convention’, 1930.
2 International Labour Organization (ILO), Combating Forced Labour. A Handbook for Employers & Business, 2015.
3 International Labour Organization (ILO), Combating Forced Labour. A Handbook for Employers & Business, 2015.
4 International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced labour, human trafficking and slavery,
http://www.ilo.org/global/topics/forced-labour/lang--en/index.htm, accessed on 1 September 2016.

4

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

GRI 409:
Forced or
Compulsory Labor

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 409-1 O
 perations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents
of forced or compulsory labor

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic, the
associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach for every
material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for forced or compulsory labor
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 409-1
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced
or compulsory labor
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:

Disclosure

409-1

a. 	Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory
labor either in terms of:
		

i.

type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier;

		

ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.

b. 	Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the
elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 409-1

Background

The process for identifying operations and suppliers,
as specified in Disclosure 409-1, can reflect the
reporting organization’s approach to risk assessment
on this issue. It can also draw from recognized
international data sources, such as the ILO Information
and reports on the application of Conventions
and Recommendations (see reference 1 in the
References section).

Forced or compulsory labor exists globally in a variety
of forms. The most extreme examples are slave labor
and bonded labor, but debts can also be used as a
means of maintaining workers in a state of forced labor.
Indicators of forced labor can also include withholding
identity papers, requiring compulsory deposits, and
compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work
extra hours to which they have not previously agreed.

When reporting the measures taken, the organization
can refer to the ILO ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles
Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy’
and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises for further guidance.

Eliminating forced labor remains an important
challenge. Forced labor is not only a serious violation
of a fundamental human right, it also perpetuates
poverty and is a hindrance to economic and human
development.5
The presence and effective implementation of policies
for eliminating all forms of forced or compulsory labor
are a basic expectation of socially responsible conduct.
Organizations with multinational operations are required
by law in some countries to provide information on their
efforts to eradicate forced labor in their supply chains.

5 International Labour Organization (ILO), International Labour Standards on Forced labour.
http://www.ilo.org/global/standards/subjects-covered-by-international-labour-standards/forced-labour/lang--en/index.htm#P23_4987,
accessed on 1 September 2016.

6

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.

Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions
and Recommendations, Report III - Information and reports on the application of Conventions and
Recommendations, updated annually.

2.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, ‘Forced Labour Convention’, 1930.

3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 105, ‘Abolition of Forced Labour Convention’, 1957.

4.

International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Protocol to Convention 29’, 2014.

5.

	International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation 203, ‘Forced Labour (Supplementary Measures)
Recommendation’, 2014.

6.

	International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.

7.

League of Nations Convention, ‘Convention to Suppress the Slave Trade and Slavery’, 1926.

8.

	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

9.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948.

10. 	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations
“Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
11.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

12. 	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue of Human Rights
and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.
13. 	United Nations (UN) Supplementary Convention, ‘Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery,
the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery’, 1956.

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-080-1

GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES
2016

GRI

410

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 410: Security Practices

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies
or procedures

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 410: Security Practices sets out reporting requirements on the topic of security
practices. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or
geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 410: Security Practices is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspecific GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 410: Security Practices, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 410 addresses the topic of security practices.
It focuses on the conduct of security personnel towards
third parties, and the potential risk for excessive use
of force or other violations of human rights. Security
personnel can refer to employees of the reporting
organization or employees of third-party organizations
that provide security forces.
The use of security personnel can have potentially
negative impacts on local populations, and on the
upholding of human rights and the rule of law. Providing
effective training in human rights therefore helps to
make sure that security personnel understand when
to use force in an appropriate way, and how to ensure
respect for human rights.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to security
practices, and how it manages these impacts.

4

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

GRI 410:
Security Practices

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for security practices using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 410-1
Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

410-1

a. 	Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s
human rights policies or specific procedures and their application to security.
b. 	Whether training requirements also apply to third-party organizations providing
security personnel.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 410-1-a, the reporting organization should:
2.1.1 	calculate the percentage using the total number of security personnel, whether they are employees
of the organization or employees of third-party organizations;
2.1.2

state whether employees of third-party organizations are also included in the calculation.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 410-1
The training can refer either to training dedicated
to the subject of human rights or to a human rights
module within a general training program. Training
can cover issues such as the use of force, inhuman
or degrading treatment or discrimination, or
identification and registering.
Background
The use of security personnel can play an essential
role in allowing an organization to operate in a safe
and productive manner, and can contribute to the
security of local communities and populations.
However, as set out in the International Code of
Conduct for Private Security Service Providers, the
use of security personnel can also have potentially
negative impacts on local populations and on the
upholding of human rights and the rule of law.

According to the UN Human Rights Office of
the High Commissioner, ‘human rights education
constitutes an essential contribution to the long-term
prevention of human rights abuses and represents
an important investment in the endeavor to achieve
a just society in which all human rights of all persons
are valued and respected.’1
Training security personnel in human rights can
therefore help to ensure their appropriate conduct
towards third parties, particularly regarding the use
of force. This disclosure indicates the proportion of
the security force that can reasonably be assumed to
be aware of an organization’s expectations of human
rights performance. Information provided under
this disclosure can demonstrate the extent to which
management systems pertaining to human rights
are implemented.

1 United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner (OHCHR),
http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Education/Training/Pages/HREducationTrainingIndex.aspx, accessed on 1 September 2016.

6

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Relevant references:
1. 	International Code of Conduct for Private Security Service Providers, 2010.
2.	Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, http://voluntaryprinciples.org/, accessed on
1 September 2016.

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-081-8

GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
2016

GRI

411

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples

5
7
7

References

8

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of rights of indigenous peoples. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size,
type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples is a
topic-specific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with
the Standards. There are two options for preparing
a report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.

Many indigenous peoples have suffered from
historic injustices and therefore are considered
a vulnerable group. Such a group is at a higher
risk of suffering a disproportionate burden of the
economic, environmental and/or social impacts
of an organization’s activities.2
In addition to their collective rights, each person
belonging to indigenous peoples shares universal
human rights.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the International Labour Organization and the United
Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to the rights of
indigenous peoples, and how it manages these impacts.

An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 411 addresses the rights of indigenous peoples.
While there is no universal definition of indigenous
peoples, they are generally identified as:1
•

tribal peoples in independent countries
whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national
community, and whose status is regulated wholly
or partially by their own customs or traditions
or by special laws or regulations;

•

peoples in independent countries who are
regarded as indigenous on account of their descent
from the populations which inhabited the country,
or a geographical region to which the country
belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization
or the establishment of present state boundaries
and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain
some or all of their own social, economic, cultural
and political institutions.

1 Source: International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, ‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention’, 1991.
2 Source: United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples’, 2007.

4

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

GRI 411:
Rights of Indigenous
Peoples

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for the rights of indigenous
peoples using GRI 103: Management Approach.

Guidance
The United Nations (UN) Declaration on the Rights
of Indigenous Peoples and the International Labour
Organization Convention 169 ‘Indigenous and Tribal
Peoples’ address the rights of indigenous peoples.
Indigenous peoples have both collective and individual
rights, as set out in these instruments.

The collective rights of indigenous peoples include,
for example, the right to retain their own customs
and institutions, and the right to self-determination.
According to the UN Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples, the right to self-determination
enables indigenous peoples to ‘freely determine
their political status and freely pursue their economic,
social and cultural development’ and have the right
to ‘autonomy or self-government in matters relating
to their internal and local affairs, as well as ways and
means for financing their autonomous functions.’

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Indigenous peoples also have the right to occupy and
use their lands or territories, including those who hold
or use land pursuant to informal or customary rights.
Indigenous peoples cannot be relocated without free,
prior, and informed consent. They also have the right
to redress in cases where their lands or resources
have been occupied or damaged without their free,
prior, and informed consent.

6

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

Due diligence is expected of an organization in order
to avoid infringing on the rights of indigenous peoples
through its activities and decisions. An organization
is also expected to respect the rights of indigenous
peoples to free, prior, and informed consent in
certain matters affecting them. This is the case
when, for example, an organization intends to start
operations on land that is inhabited or owned by
indigenous peoples.

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 411-1
Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples
during the reporting period.
Disclosure

411-1

b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following:
		

i.

Incident reviewed by the organization;

		

ii. Remediation plans being implemented;

		

iii.	Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through
routine internal management review processes;

		

iv. Incident no longer subject to action.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 411-1, the reporting organization should include
incidents involving the rights of indigenous peoples among:
2.1.1

workers performing the organization’s activities;

2.1.2

communities likely to be impacted by existing or planned activities of the organization.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 411-1

Background

In the context of this disclosure, an ‘incident’ refers to
a legal action or complaint registered with the reporting
organization or competent authorities through a formal
process, or an instance of non-compliance identified
by the organization through established procedures.
Established procedures to identify instances of noncompliance can include management system audits,
formal monitoring programs, or grievance mechanisms.

The number of recorded incidents involving the
rights of indigenous peoples provides information
about the implementation of an organization’s policies
relating to indigenous peoples. This information helps
to indicate the state of relations with stakeholder
communities. This is particularly important in regions
where indigenous peoples reside, or have interests
near operations of the organization.

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

7

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, ‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention’, 1991.
2.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights’, 1966.

3.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights’, 1966.

4. 	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Right to Development’, 1986.
5.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples’, 2007.

6. 	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948.
Other relevant references:
7.	International Finance Corporation (IFC), ‘Performance Standards on Environmental and Social
Sustainability’, 2012.

8

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
9

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-082-5

GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
2016

GRI

412

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 412-1 O
 perations that have been subject to human rights reviews
or impact assessments
Disclosure 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures
Disclosure 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that
include human rights clauses or that underwent human
rights screening

5
7

References

10

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of human rights assessment. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

7
8
9

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social
topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with
the Standards. There are two options for preparing
a report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 412 addresses the topic of human rights assessment.
The international standard that establishes the
expectations of responsible conduct for organizations
with respect to human rights is the United Nations
(UN) ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’,
endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011.
An organization can impact human rights directly,
through its own actions and operations. It can also
impact human rights indirectly, through its interactions
and relationships with others, including governments,
local communities and suppliers, and through its
investments.
Organizations are responsible for their impacts on
the entire range of internationally recognized human
rights. These rights include, at a minimum, all rights set
out in the International Bill of Rights and the principles
set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO)
‘Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights
at Work’. The International Bill of Rights includes
the following three instruments:

4

•

the UN Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration
of Human Rights’, 1948;

•

the UN Convention, ‘International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights’, 1966;

•

the UN Convention, ‘International Covenant
on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights’, 1966.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

In addition to these three key instruments, the
international legal framework for human rights includes
more than 80 other instruments, from declarations and
guiding principles to binding treaties and conventions.
They also range from universal to regional instruments.
In order to identify, prevent and mitigate negative human
rights impacts, an organization can undertake human
rights reviews or impact assessments of its operations.
It can also implement specialized training that equips
employees to address human rights in the course of
their regular work.
In addition, an organization can integrate human rights
criteria in screening, or include human rights criteria in
performance requirements when making contracts and
agreements with other parties, such as joint ventures
and subsidiaries.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s approach to preventing and
mitigating negative human rights impacts.
Other GRI Standards deal with specific human rights
(such as GRI 408: Child Labor or GRI 411: Rights of
Indigenous Peoples). In addition, the assessment of
suppliers for human rights-related impacts can be
reported with GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment.

GRI 412:
Human Rights
Assessment

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 412-1 O
 perations that have been subject to human rights reviews
or impact assessments
• Disclosure 412-2 E
 mployee training on human rights policies or procedures
• Disclosure 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that
include human rights clauses or that underwent human
rights screening

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for human rights assessment using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for human
rights assessment, the reporting organization can
also explain:

6

•

its strategies for extending applicable policies
and procedures to external parties, such as joint
ventures and subsidiaries;

•

the use of human rights criteria or clauses in
contracts, including the types of clauses and the
types of contracts and agreements in which they
are commonly applied, such as investments and
joint ventures.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 412-1
Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews
or impact assessments
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

412-1

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews
or human rights impact assessments, by country.

Guidance
Background
Information reported for this disclosure can show
the extent to which an organization considers human
rights when making decisions on its locations of
operations. It can also provide information to assess
the organization’s potential to be associated with,
or to be considered complicit in, human rights abuse.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

7

Disclosure 412-2
Employee training on human rights policies or procedures
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

412-2

a. 	Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies
or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.
b. 	Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period in human rights policies
or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 412-2, the reporting organization should use
data from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number of employees.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 412-2

Background

The disclosure covers employee training on human
rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of
human rights that are relevant to operations, including
the applicability of the human rights policies or
procedures to the employees’ work.

Information generated from this disclosure offers
insight into an organization’s capacity to implement
its human rights policies and procedures.

The training can refer either to training dedicated
to the subject of human rights or to a human rights
module within a general training program.
Reporting the total number of hours of employee
training is covered by GRI 404: Training and Education.

8

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

Human rights are well-established in international
standards and laws, and this has obligated organizations
to implement specialized training that equips
employees to address human rights in the course
of their regular work. The total number of employees
trained and the amount of training they receive both
contribute to an assessment of an organization’s depth
of knowledge about human rights.

Disclosure 412-3
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

412-3

a. 	Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening.
b. The definition used for ‘significant investment agreements’.

Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 412-3, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1 	include the total number of significant investment agreements and contracts finalized during the
reporting period that either moved the organization into a position of ownership in another entity,
or initiated a capital investment project that was material to financial accounts;
2.2.2	include only the agreements and contracts that are significant in terms of size or
strategic importance.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 412-3

Background

Human rights screening refers to a formal or
documented process that applies a set of human
rights performance criteria as one of the factors
to determine whether to proceed with a business
relationship.

This disclosure is one measure of the extent to which
human rights considerations are integrated into an
organization’s economic decisions. This is particularly
relevant for organizations that operate within, or are
partners in ventures in regions where the protection
of human rights is of significant concern.

Significant agreements and contracts can be
determined by the level of approval required within
an organization for the investment. Other criteria
can also be used to determine significance if they
can be consistently applied to all agreements.
If multiple significant investment agreements are
undertaken and contracts signed with the same
partner, the total number of agreements reflects
the total number of separate projects undertaken
or entities created.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

9

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration, ‘Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work’, 1998.
2.

United Nations (UN) International Bill of Rights:

		

•

United Nations (UN) Declaration, 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', 1948.

		

•

United Nations (UN) Convention, 'International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights', 1966.

		

• 	United Nations (UN) Convention, 'International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural
Rights', 1966.

The ILO ‘Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work’ builds upon the eight core
Conventions of the ILO1:
3.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, ‘Forced Labour Convention’, 1930.

4.	
International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 87, ‘Freedom of Association and Protection
of the Right to Organise Convention’, 1948.
5.	
International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 98, ‘Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining
Convention’, 1949.
6.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 100, ‘Equal Remuneration Convention’, 1951.

7.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 105, ‘Abolition of Forced Labour Convention’, 1957.

8.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 111, ‘Discrimination (Employment and Occupation)
Convention’, 1958.
9.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 138, ‘Minimum Age Convention’, 1973.

10.

International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 182, ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’, 1999.

Regional conventions, adhering to the principle of universality in the International Bill of Rights, for areas where
the reporting organization operates, including:
11.

African Union Charter, ‘African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights’, 1981.

12.	European Court of Human Rights, ‘European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights
and Fundamental Freedoms’, 1950.
13.

League of Arab States, ‘Arab Charter on Human Rights’, 1994.

14.

Organization of American States (OAS), ‘American Convention on Human Rights’, 1969.

Conventions protecting the rights of individuals who can be impacted by the organization’s work, including
but not limited to:
15.	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 107, ‘Indigenous and Tribal Populations
Convention’, 1957.
16. 	International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, ‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention’, 1991.
1 Conventions 100 and 111 pertain to non-discrimination; Conventions 87 and 98 pertain to freedom of association and collective bargaining;
Conventions 138 and 182 pertain to the elimination of child labor; and Conventions 29 and 105 pertain to the prevention of forced
or compulsory labor.

10

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

17.	
United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against
Women (CEDAW)’, 1979.
18.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities’, 2006.

19.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Rights of the Child’, 1989.

20.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Racial Discrimination’, 1965.
21.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples’, 2007.

Additional references include:
22.	International Labour Organization (ILO), Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions
and Recommendations, Report III - Information and reports on the application of Conventions
and Recommendations, updated annually.
23.	
International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises and Social Policy’, 2006.
24.	United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Protection of the Rights
of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families’, 1990.
25.	United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination’, 1963.
26.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Right to Development’, 1986.

27.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘United Nations Millennium Declaration’, 2000.

28.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action’, 1993.

29.	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
30.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

31.	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue
of Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.
Other relevant references:
32.	United Nations Global Compact, Global Compact Business Guide for Conflict Impact Assessment
and Risk Management, 2002.
33.	United Nations Global Compact and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Guidance on Responsible
Business in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas: A Resource for Companies and Investors, 2010.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016

11

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
12

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-084-9

GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
2016

GRI

413

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 413: Local Communities

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 413-1 O
 perations with local community engagement, impact
assessments, and development programs
	
Disclosure 413-2 O
 perations with significant actual and potential negative
impacts on local communities

5
7

References

11

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 413: Local Communities sets out reporting requirements on the topic of local
communities. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector
or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

7
9

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 413: Local Communities is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 413: Local Communities, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 413 addresses the topic of local communities.
In the GRI Standards, local communities are defined
as persons or groups of persons living and/or
working in any areas that are economically, socially or
environmentally impacted (positively or negatively) by
an organization’s operations. The local community can
range from persons living adjacent to an organization's
operations, to those living at a distance who are still
likely to be impacted by these operations.
An organization’s activities and infrastructure can
have significant economic, social, cultural, and/or
environmental impacts on local communities.
Where possible, organizations are expected to
anticipate and avoid negative impacts on local
communities. Establishing a timely and effective
stakeholder identification and engagement process
is important to help organizations understand the
vulnerability of local communities and how these
might be affected by the organization’s activities.
Due to the heterogeneous nature of local
communities, an organization is expected to consider
the differentiated nature of communities and the distinct
and specific vulnerabilities these groups can suffer as
a result of the organization’s activities.

4

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development and the United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide
information about an organization’s impacts related to
local communities, and how it manages these impacts.

GRI 413:
Local Communities

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 413-1 O
 perations with local community engagement, impact
assessments, and development programs
• Disclosure 413-2 O
 perations with significant actual and potential negative impacts
on local communities

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for local communities using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for local
communities, the reporting organization can also
describe:
•

the means by which stakeholders are identified
and engaged with;

•

which vulnerable groups have been identified;

•

any collective or individual rights that have been
identified that are of particular concern for the
community in question;

•

how it engages with stakeholder groups that are
particular to the community (for example, groups
defined by age, indigenous background, ethnicity or
migration status);

•

the means by which its departments and other
bodies address risks and impacts, or support
independent third parties to engage with
stakeholders and address risks and impacts.

Background
Communities have individual and collective rights
deriving from, among others, international declarations
and conventions such as:

6

•

the United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal
Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948;

•

the United Nations (UN) Convention,
‘International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights’, 1966;

•

the United Nations (UN) Convention,
‘International Covenant on Economic, Social,
and Cultural Rights’, 1966;

•

the United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration
on the Right to Development’, 1986.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

Other standards such as the International Finance
Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards (PS) also
provide widely-accepted good practice approaches for
organizational assessment, engagement and treatment
of community-related impact issues (see IFC PS1 –
Assessment and Management of Environmental and
Social Risks and Impacts, and PS4 – Community
Health, Safety, and Security).

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 413-1
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments,
and development programs
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments,
and/or development programs, including the use of:
i.	social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory
processes;
ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring;
Disclosure

413-1

iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments;
iv. local community development programs based on local communities’ needs;
v.

stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping;

vi.	broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include
vulnerable groups;
vii.	works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation
bodies to deal with impacts;
viii. formal local community grievance processes.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 413-1, the reporting organization should use data
from Disclosure 102-7 in GRI 102: General Disclosures to identify the total number of operations.
Guidance
Background
A key element in managing impacts on people in local
communities is assessment and planning in order to
understand the actual and potential impacts, and strong
engagement with local communities to understand their
expectations and needs. There are many elements that
can be incorporated into local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development programs. This
disclosure seeks to identify which elements have been
consistently applied, organization-wide.

Where possible, organizations are expected to
anticipate and avoid negative impacts on local
communities. Where this is not possible, or where
residual impacts remain, organizations are expected
to manage those impacts appropriately, including
grievances, and to compensate local communities
for negative impacts.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

7

Disclosure 413-1
Continued
Establishing a timely and effective stakeholder
identification and engagement process is important
to help organizations understand the vulnerability
of local communities and how these might be
affected by the organization’s activities. A stakeholder
engagement process both in early planning stages as
well as during operations, can help establish lines of
communication between an organization’s various
departments (planning, finance, environment,
production, etc.) and key stakeholder interest groups
in the community. This enables an organization to
consider the views of community stakeholders in its
decisions, and to address its potential impacts on local
communities in a timely manner.

An organization is expected to consider the
differentiated nature of local communities and to
take specific action to identify and engage vulnerable
groups. This might require adopting differentiated
measures to allow the effective participation of
vulnerable groups, such as making information available
in alternate languages or format for those who are
not literate or who do not have access to printed
materials. Where necessary, organizations are expected
to establish additional or separate processes so that
negative impacts on vulnerable or disadvantaged groups
are avoided, minimized, mitigated or compensated.1

Organizations can utilize a number of useful tools to
engage communities, including social and human rights
impact assessments, which include a diverse set of
approaches for proper identification of stakeholders
and community characteristics. These can be based on
issues such as ethnic background, indigenous descent,
gender, age, migrant status, socioeconomic status,
literacy levels, disabilities, income level, infrastructure
availability or specific human health vulnerabilities
which may exist within stakeholder communities.

1 International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Notes: Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, 2012.

8

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

Disclosure 413-2
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on
local communities
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

413-2

a. Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, including:
i.	the location of the operations;
ii. the significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations.

Reporting recommendations
2.2 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 413-2, the reporting organization should:
2.2.1	report the vulnerability and risk to local communities from potential negative impacts due to
factors including:
		

2.2.1.1

the degree of physical or economic isolation of the local community;

		

2.2.1.2	the level of socioeconomic development, including the degree of gender equality within the
community;

		

2.2.1.3

the state of socioeconomic infrastructure, including health and education infrastructure;

		

2.2.1.4

the proximity to operations;

		

2.2.1.5

the level of social organization;

		

2.2.1.6	the strength and quality of the governance of local and national institutions around local
communities;

2.2.2	report the exposure of the local community to its operations due to higher than average use of
shared resources or impact on shared resources, including:
		

2.2.2.1	the use of hazardous substances that impact the environment and human health in general,
and specifically impact reproductive health;

		

2.2.2.2

the volume and type of pollution released;

		

2.2.2.3

the status as major employer in the local community;

		

2.2.2.4

land conversion and resettlement;

		

2.2.2.5

natural resource consumption;

2.2.3	for each of the significant actual and potential negative economic, social, cultural, and/or environmental
impacts on local communities and their rights, describe:
		

2.2.3.1

the intensity or severity of the impact;

		

2.2.3.2

the likely duration of the impact;

		

2.2.3.3

the reversibility of the impact;

		

2.2.3.4

the scale of the impact.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

9

Disclosure 413-2
Continued

10

Guidance for Disclosure 413-2

Background

Internal sources of information about actual and
potential negative impacts of operations on local
communities can include:

This disclosure is focused on significant actual and
potential negative impacts related to an organization’s
operations and not on community investments or
donations, which are addressed by GRI 201: Economic
Performance.

•

actual performance data;

•

internal investment plans and associated risk
assessments;

•

all data collected with topic-specific disclosures as
they relate to individual communities. For example:
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts, GRI 301:
Materials, GRI 302: Energy, GRI 303: Water, GRI 304:
Biodiversity, GRI 305: Emissions, GRI 306: Effluents
and Waste, GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety,
GRI 408: Child Labor, GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory
Labor, GRI 410: Security Practices, GRI 411: Rights of
Indigenous Peoples, and GRI 416: Customer Health
and Safety.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

This disclosure informs stakeholders about an
organization’s awareness of its negative impacts on
local communities. It also enables the organization
to better prioritize and improve its organization-wide
attention to local communities.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.

Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
2.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Risk Awareness Tool for Multinational
Enterprises in Weak Governance Zones, 2006.
3.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights’, 1966.

4.

United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights’, 1966.

5.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Right to Development’, 1986.

6.

United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948.

Other relevant references:
7.	International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standards on Environmental and Social
Sustainability, 2012.
8.	International Finance Corporation (IFC), Stakeholder Engagement: A Good Practice Handbook for Companies
Doing Business in Emerging Markets, 2007.

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

11

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
12

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-085-6

GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
2016

GRI

414

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
	
Disclosure 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken

5
7
7
8

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of supplier social assessment. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 414 addresses the topic of supplier social assessment.
An organization might be involved with impacts either
through its own activities or as a result of its business
relationships with other parties. Due diligence is expected
of an organization in order to prevent and mitigate
negative social impacts in the supply chain. These include
impacts the organization either causes or contributes to,
or that are directly linked to its activities, products, or
services by its relationship with a supplier.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the
United Nations: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s approach to preventing and
mitigating negative social impacts in its supply chain.
Suppliers can be assessed for a range of social criteria,
including human rights (such as child labor and forced
or compulsory labor); employment practices; health
and safety practices; industrial relations; incidents
(such as of abuse, coercion or harassment); wages
and compensation; and working hours. Some of these
criteria are covered in other GRI Standards in the 400
series (Social topics).

4

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also
be found in:
•

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment

If the reporting organization has identified both topics
as material, it can combine its disclosures for GRI 308
and GRI 414. For example, if the organization uses the
same approach for managing both topics, it can provide
one combined explanation of its management approach.

GRI 414:
Supplier Social
Assessment

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
• Disclosure 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for supplier social assessment
using GRI 103: Management Approach.
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for supplier
social assessment, the reporting organization can also
disclose:

•

processes used, such as due diligence, to identify
and assess significant actual and potential negative
social impacts in the supply chain;

•

•

how the organization identifies and prioritizes
suppliers for assessment of social impacts;

the systems used to screen new suppliers using
social criteria, and a list of the social criteria used
to screen new suppliers;

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
•

actions taken to address the significant actual and
potential negative social impacts identified in the
supply chain and whether the actions are intended
to prevent, mitigate, or remediate the impacts;

•

how expectations are established and defined
in contracts with suppliers to promote the
prevention, mitigation, and remediation of
significant actual and potential negative social
impacts, including targets and objectives;

•

6

whether suppliers are incentivized and rewarded
for the prevention, mitigation, and remediation
of significant actual and potential negative social
impacts;

•

practices for assessing and auditing suppliers and
their products and services using social criteria;

•

a list of the type, system, scope, frequency, current
implementation of assessment and audit, and which
parts of the supply chain have been certified and
audited;

•

the systems in place to assess the potential negative
impacts of terminating a relationship with a supplier
as a result of assessing the supplier for social
impacts, and the organization’s strategy to mitigate
those impacts.

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

Social criteria or assessments of suppliers for social
impacts can include the topics in the 400 series
(Social topics).
Negative impacts can include those that are either
caused or contributed to by an organization, or that
are directly linked to its activities, products, or services
by its relationship with a supplier.
Assessments can be informed by audits, contractual
reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and
grievance mechanisms.
Actions taken to address social impacts can include
changing an organization’s procurement practices,
adjusting performance expectations, capacity building,
training, changes to processes, as well as terminating
supplier relationships.
Assessments and audits of suppliers and their products
and services using social criteria can be undertaken by
an organization, by a second party, or by a third party.

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 414-1
New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

414-1

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 414-1
Social criteria can include the topics in the 400 series
(Social topics).
Background
This disclosure informs stakeholders about the
percentage of suppliers selected or contracted
subject to due diligence processes for social impacts.

An organization is expected to initiate due diligence
as early as possible in the development of a new
relationship with a supplier.
Impacts may be prevented or mitigated at the stage
of structuring contracts or other agreements, as well
as via ongoing collaboration with suppliers.

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

7

Disclosure 414-2
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts.
b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts.
Disclosure

414-2

c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain.
d.	Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts
with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment.
e.	Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts
with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 414-2, the reporting organization should,
where it provides appropriate context on significant impacts, provide a breakdown of the information by:
2.1.1

the location of the supplier;

2.1.2

the significant actual and potential negative social impact.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 414-2

Background

Negative impacts include those that are either caused
or contributed to by an organization, or that are directly
linked to its activities, products, or services by its
relationship with a supplier.

This disclosure informs stakeholders about an
organization’s awareness of significant actual and
potential negative social impacts in the supply chain.

Assessments for social impacts can include the topics
in the 400 series (Social topics).
Assessments can be made against agreed performance
expectations that are set and communicated to the
suppliers prior to the assessment.
Assessments can be informed by audits, contractual
reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and
grievance mechanisms.
Improvements can include changing an organization’s
procurement practices, the adjustment of performance
expectations, capacity building, training, and changes
to processes.

8

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.	United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations
“Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.
2.

United Nations (UN), Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, 2008.

3.	United Nations (UN), Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the Issue of Human
Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises, John Ruggie, 2011.
Other relevant references:
4.

United Nations Global Compact, Global Compact Business Guide for Conflict Impact Assessment and Risk
Management, 2002.

5.

United Nations Global Compact and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Guidance on Responsible
Business in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas: A Resource for Companies and Investors, 2010.

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-086-3

GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY
2016

GRI

415

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 415: Public Policy

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions

5
6
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 415: Public Policy sets out reporting requirements on the topic of public policy. This
Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or geographic location
that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

GRI 415: Public Policy is a topic-specific GRI
Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 415: Public Policy, if this is one of its material topics.

Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with the
Standards. Any published materials that use the
GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the specific claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

400

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 415 addresses the topic of public policy.
This includes an organization’s participation in the
development of public policy, through activities such
as lobbying and making financial or in-kind contributions
to political parties, politicians, or causes.
While an organization can positively support the public
political process and encourage the development of
public policy that benefits society at large, this can also
bring risks associated with corruption, bribery, and
undue influence, among others.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to public policy,
and how it manages them.

4

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

GRI 415:
Public Policy

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for public policy using
GRI 103: Management Approach.
Reporting recommendations
1.2 	The reporting organization should report:
1.2.1

the significant issues that are the focus of its participation in public policy development and lobbying;

1.2.2 	its stance on these issues, and any differences between its lobbying positions and any stated policies,
goals, or other public positions.

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 415-1
Political contributions
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
Disclosure

415-1

a. Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly
by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary.
b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 415-1, the reporting organization
shall calculate financial political contributions in compliance with national accounting rules,
where these exist.
Guidance
Background
The purpose of this disclosure is to identify an
organization’s support for political causes.
This disclosure can provide an indication of the extent
to which an organization’s political contributions are
in line with its stated policies, goals, or other
public positions.

6

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

Direct or indirect contributions to political causes can
also present corruption risks, because they can be used
to exert undue influence on the political process. Many
countries have legislation that limits the amount an
organization can spend on political parties and candidates
for campaigning purposes. If an organization channels
contributions indirectly through intermediaries, such as
lobbyists or organizations linked to political causes, it can
improperly circumvent such legislation.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.

Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
2.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Principles, ‘G20/OECD Principles
of Corporate Governance’, 2015.
3.	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Recommendation, ‘Recommendation
of the Council on Principles for Transparency and Integrity in Lobbying’, 2010.

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-087-0

GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
2016

GRI

416

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product
and service categories
	
Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and
safety impacts of products and services

5
7

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of customer health and safety. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

7
8

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety is a
topic-specific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social dimension
of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on the
social systems within which it operates.
GRI 416 addresses the topic of customer health and safety,
including an organization’s systematic efforts to address
health and safety across the life cycle of a product or
service, and its adherence to customer health and safety
regulations and voluntary codes.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
on an organization’s impacts related to customer
health and safety, and how it manages these impacts.
Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can
also be found in:
•

4

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

GRI 416:
Customer Health
and Safety

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and
service categories
• Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety
impacts of products and services

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for customer health and safety
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

5

Management approach disclosures
Continued
Guidance
When reporting its management approach for
customer health and safety, the reporting organization
can also disclose whether the health and safety
impacts of products and services are assessed for
improvement in each of the following life cycle stages:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

6

Development of product concept
Research and development
Certification
Manufacturing and production
Marketing and promotion
Storage, distribution, and supply
Use and service
Disposal, reuse, or recycling

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 416-1
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product
and service categories
Reporting requirements
Disclosure

416-1

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are
assessed for improvement.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 416-1
This measure helps to identify the existence and
range of systematic efforts to address health and safety
across the life cycle of a product or service. In reporting
the information in Disclosure 416-1, the reporting
organization can also describe the criteria used for
the assessment.

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

7

Disclosure 416-2
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health
and safety impacts of products and services
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning
the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by:
Disclosure

416-2

		

i.

incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;

		

ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;

		

iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.

b. 	If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary
codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 416-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.1.1 	exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was determined not
to be at fault;
2.1.2 	exclude incidents of non-compliance related to labeling. Incidents related to labeling
are reported in Disclosure 417-2 of GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling;
2.1.3 	if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in periods
prior to the reporting period.
Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 416-2
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within
the reporting period can relate to incidents formally
resolved during the reporting period, whether they
occurred in periods prior to the reporting period
or not.
Background
Protection of health and safety is a recognized goal
of many national and international regulations.
Customers expect products and services to perform

8

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

their intended functions satisfactorily, and not pose
a risk to health and safety. Customers have a right
to non-hazardous products. Where their health and
safety is affected, customers also have the right to
seek redress.
This disclosure addresses the life cycle of the product
or service once it is available for use, and therefore
subject to regulations and voluntary codes concerning
the health and safety of products and services.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-088-7

GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING
2016

GRI

417

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labeling
Disclosure 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning
marketing communications

5
6
6

References

9

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of marketing and labeling. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

7
8

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report
about their impacts on the economy, the environment,
and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are
to be read in the context of recommendations and
guidance; however, an organization is not required to
comply with recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 417 addresses the topic of product and service
information and labeling and marketing communications.
This includes customer access to accurate and
adequate information on the positive and negative
economic, environmental, and social impacts of the
products and services they consume – both from
a product and service labeling and a marketing
communications perspective.
Fair and responsible marketing communications,
as well as access to information about the composition
of products, and their proper use and disposal, can help
customers to make informed choices.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to product and
service labeling and marketing communications, and how
it manages these impacts.

4

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

GRI 417:
Marketing
and Labeling

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
• Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labeling
• Disclosure 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning
marketing communications

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for marketing and labeling
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 417-1
Requirements for product and service information and labeling
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Whether each of the following types of information is required by the organization’s procedures
for product and service information and labeling:

Disclosure

417-1

		

i.

The sourcing of components of the product or service;

		

ii. 	Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental
or social impact;

		

iii. Safe use of the product or service;

		

iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts;

		

v.

Other (explain).

b. 	Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance
with such procedures.

Guidance
Background
Customers and end users need accessible and
adequate information about the positive and negative
environmental and social impacts of products and
services. This can include information on the safe use

6

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

of a product or service, the disposal of the product,
or the sourcing of its components. Access to this
information helps customers to make informed
purchasing choices.

Disclosure 417-2
Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labeling
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning
product and service information and labeling, by:
Disclosure

417-2

		

i.

incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;

		

ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;

		

iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.

b. 	If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary
codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
2.1

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 417-2, the reporting organization shall:
2.1.1 	exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was determined not to
be at fault;
2.1.2 	if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in periods
prior to the reporting period.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 417-2
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within
the reporting period can relate to incidents formally
resolved during the reporting period, whether they
occurred in periods prior to the reporting period
or not.
Background
Providing appropriate information and labeling
with respect to economic, environmental, and
social impacts can be linked to compliance with
certain types of regulations, laws, and codes.
It is, for example, linked to compliance with

regulations, national laws, and the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It is
also potentially linked to compliance with strategies
for brand and market differentiation.
The display and provision of information and
labeling for products and services are subject to
many regulations and laws. Non-compliance can
indicate either inadequate internal management
systems and procedures or ineffective implementation.
The trends revealed by this disclosure can indicate
improvements or a deterioration in the effectiveness
of internal controls.

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

7

Disclosure 417-3
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning
marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by:
Disclosure

417-3

		

i.

incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;

		

ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;

		

iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.

b. 	If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary
codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
2.2

When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 417-3, the reporting organization shall:
2.2.1 	exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was determined not
to be at fault;
2.2.2 	if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in periods
prior to the reporting period.

Guidance
Guidance for Disclosure 417-3
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within
the reporting period can relate to incidents formally
resolved during the reporting period, whether they
occurred in periods prior to the reporting period
or not.
Background
Marketing is an important method of communication
between organizations and customers, and is subject
to many regulations, laws, and voluntary codes, such
as the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)’s
Consolidated Code of Advertising and Marketing
Communication Practice.

8

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

An organization is expected to use fair and
responsible practices in its business and dealings with
customers. Fair and responsible marketing requires
the organization to communicate transparently about
the economic, environmental, and social impacts of its
brands, products, and services. Fair and responsible
marketing also avoids any deceptive, untruthful, or
discriminatory claims, and does not take advantage
of a customers’ lack of knowledge or choices.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises, 2011.
Other relevant references:
2.	International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Consolidated Code of Advertising and Marketing
Communication Practice, 2011.

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016

9

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
10

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-089-4

GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
2016

GRI

418

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 418: Customer Privacy

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 418: Customer Privacy sets out reporting requirements on the topic of customer
privacy. This Standard can be used by an organization of any size, type, sector or
geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards

Topicspecific
Standards

General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy is a topic-specific
GRI Standard in the 400 series (Social topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.

102

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 418: Customer Privacy, if this is one of its
material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 418 addresses the topic of customer privacy,
including losses of customer data and breaches of
customer privacy. These can result from non-compliance
with existing laws, regulations and/or other voluntary
standards regarding the protection of customer privacy.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
about an organization’s impacts related to customer
privacy, and how it manages them.

4

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

GRI 418:
Customer Privacy

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for customer privacy using
GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy,
categorized by:
Disclosure

418-1

		

i.

complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization;

		

ii. complaints from regulatory bodies.

b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data.
c. 	If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this
fact is sufficient.
2.1	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 418-1, the reporting organization
shall indicate if a substantial number of these breaches relate to events in preceding years.
Guidance
Background
Protection of customer privacy is a generally
recognized goal in national regulations and organizational
policies. As set out in the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, organizations
are expected to ‘respect consumer privacy and take
reasonable measures to ensure the security of personal
data that they collect, store, process or disseminate’.
To protect customer privacy, an organization is
expected to limit its collection of personal data, to
collect data by lawful means, and to be transparent

6

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

about how data are gathered, used, and secured.
The organization is also expected to not disclose or
use personal customer information for any purposes
other than those agreed upon, and to communicate
any changes in data protection policies or measures
to customers directly.
This disclosure provides an evaluation of the success
of management systems and procedures relating
to customer privacy protection.

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-090-0

GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
2016

GRI

419

1

Contents

Introduction

3

GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance

5

1. Management approach disclosures
2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures
Disclosure 419-1 N
 on-compliance with laws and regulations in the social
and economic area

5
6

References

7

About this Standard
Responsibility

This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB).
Any feedback on the GRI Standards can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Scope

GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance sets out reporting requirements on the topic
of socioeconomic compliance. This Standard can be used by an organization of any
size, type, sector or geographic location that wants to report on its impacts related
to this topic.

Normative
references

This Standard is to be used together with the most recent versions of the following
documents.
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI Standards Glossary
In the text of this Standard, terms deﬁned in the Glossary are underlined.

Effective date

This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after
1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other Standards. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

6

Introduction

A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards
are designed to be used by organizations to report about
their impacts on the economy, the environment, and
society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of
interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be
downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.

An organization then selects from the set of topicspeciﬁc GRI Standards for reporting on its material
topics. These Standards are organized into three series:
200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and
400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures speciﬁc to
that topic, and is designed to be used together with
GRI 103: Management Approach, which is used to
report the management approach for the topic.

There are three universal Standards that apply to every
organization preparing a sustainability report:

GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance is a topicspecific GRI Standard in the 400 series
(Social topics).

GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach

B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims

GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using
the GRI Standards. It has essential information
on how to use and reference the Standards.
Figure 1
Overview of the set of GRI Standards
Starting point
for using the
GRI Standards

Foundation

GRI

101
Universal
Standards
General
Disclosures

Management
Approach

GRI

GRI

To report contextual
information about
an organization

To report the
management approach
for each material topic

103

102

Topicspecific
Standards

Economic

Environmental

Social

GRI

GRI

GRI

200

300

400

There are two basic approaches for using the GRI
Standards. For each way of using the Standards there
is a corresponding claim, or statement of use, which
an organization is required to include in any published
materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare
a sustainability report that is in accordance with the
Standards. There are two options for preparing a
report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive),
depending on the extent of disclosures included in
the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance
with the GRI Standards uses this Standard,
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance, if this is one
of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content,
can also be used to report speciﬁc information,
without preparing a report in accordance with
the Standards. Any published materials that use
the GRI Standards in this way are to include a
‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more
information on how to use the GRI Standards,
and the speciﬁc claims that organizations are
required to include in any published materials.

Select from these to report specific disclosures
for each material topic

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

3

C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions.
In the text, requirements are presented in bold font
and indicated with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to
be read in the context of recommendations and guidance;
however, an organization is not required to comply with
recommendations or guidance in order
to claim that a report has been prepared in accordance
with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular
course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the
text, the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background
information, explanations and examples to help
organizations better understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable
requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See
GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the social
dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s
impacts on the social systems within which it operates.
GRI 419 addresses the topic of socioeconomic
compliance. This includes an organization’s
overall compliance record, as well as compliance
with specific laws or regulations in the social and
economic area. Compliance can relate to accounting
and tax fraud, corruption, bribery, competition,
the provision of products and services, or labor
issues, such as workplace discrimination, among
others. This includes compliance with international
declarations, conventions, and treaties, as well as
national, sub-national, regional, and local regulations.
These concepts are covered in key instruments
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information
on an organization’s compliance with applicable laws
and regulations, and with other instruments.

4

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

Additional disclosures that relate to this topic can also
be found in:
•

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance

If the reporting organization has identified both topics
as material, it can combine its disclosures for GRI 307
and GRI 419. For example, if the organization uses the
same approach for managing both topics, it can provide
one combined explanation of its management approach.

GRI 419:
Socioeconomic
Compliance

This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-speciﬁc
disclosures. These are set out in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 419-1 N
 on-compliance with laws and regulations in the social
and economic area

1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic,
the associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach
for every material topic, as well as reporting topic-speciﬁc disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-speciﬁc Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 speciﬁes how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
Reporting requirements
1.1 	The reporting organization shall report its management approach for socioeconomic compliance
using GRI 103: Management Approach.

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

5

2. Topic-specific disclosures

Disclosure 419-1
Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social
and economic area
Reporting requirements
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
a. 	Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations
in the social and economic area in terms of:
Disclosure

419-1

		

i.

total monetary value of significant fines;

		

ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions;

		

iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms.

b. 	If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief
statement of this fact is sufficient.
c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred.

Reporting recommendations
2.1 	When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 419-1, the reporting organization should include
administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to comply with laws and/or regulations in the social and
economic area, including:
2.1.1

international declarations, conventions, and treaties;

2.1.2

national, sub-national, regional, and local regulations;

2.1.3 	cases brought against the organization through the use of international dispute mechanisms
or national dispute mechanisms supervised by government authorities.
Guidance

6

Guidance for Disclosure 419-1

Background

Relevant information for this disclosure can include
data as reported with GRI 416: Customer Health and
Safety and GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling.

Non-compliance within an organization can indicate
the ability of management to ensure that operations
conform to certain performance parameters. In some
circumstances, non-compliance can lead to remediation
obligations or other costly liabilities. The strength
of an organization’s compliance record can also affect
its ability to expand operations or gain permits.

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

References

The following documents informed the development of this Standard and can be helpful for understanding
and applying it.
Authoritative intergovernmental instruments:
1. 	Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.

GRI 419: Socio Economic Compliance 2016

7

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
8

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-091-7

GRI
STANDARDS
GLOSSARY
2016
1

GRI
Standards Glossary

Notes for use of the GRI Standards Glossary
The following terms and definitions apply in the context of using the GRI Standards
for sustainability reporting.
Where a term is not defined in the GRI Standards Glossary, definitions that are commonly
used and understood apply.

About the GRI Standards Glossary
Responsibility

This GRI Standards Glossary is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board
(GSSB) to be used together with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards), which can be downloaded at www.globalreporting.org/standards.
Any feedback on the GRI Standards Glossary can be submitted to
standards@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.

Effective date

This GRI Standards Glossary is effective for reports or other materials published on or
after 1 July 2018. Earlier adoption is encouraged.

Note: This document includes hyperlinks to other sources. In most browsers, using ‘ctrl’ + click will
open external links in a new browser window. After clicking on a link, use ‘alt’ + left arrow to return to
the previous view.

2

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

absentee
worker absent from work because of incapacity of any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury
or disease
Note: Absentee excludes permitted leave absences such as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave,
and compassionate leave.

absentee rate
	measure of actual absentee days lost, expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by
workers for the same period
	
Note: Absentee rate can be calculated for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees). This is specified
in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

annual total compensation
compensation provided over the course of a year
Note: Annual total compensation can include compensation such as salary, bonus, stock awards, option
awards, non-equity incentive plan compensation, change in pension value and nonqualified deferred
compensation earnings, and all other compensation.

anti­-competitive behavior
	action of the organization or employees that can result in collusion with potential competitors, with the
purpose of limiting the effects of market competition
Note: Examples of anti-competitive behavior actions can include fixing prices, coordinating bids, creating
market or output restrictions, imposing geographic quotas, or allocating customers, suppliers,
geographic areas, and product lines.

anti­-­trust and monopoly practice
	action of the organization that can result in collusion to erect barriers for entry to the sector, or another
collusive action that prevents competition
Note: Examples of collusive actions can include unfair business practices, abuse of market position, cartels,
anti-competitive mergers, and price-fixing.

area of high biodiversity value
	area not subject to legal protection, but recognized for important biodiversity features by a number
of governmental and non-governmental organizations
Note 1: A
 reas of high biodiversity value include habitats that are a priority for conservation, which are
often defined in National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans prepared under the United
Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological Diversity’, 1992.
Note 2: S everal international conservation organizations have identified particular areas of high
biodiversity value.

area protected
	area that is protected from any harm during operational activities, and where the environment remains
in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem

area restored
	area that was used during or affected by operational activities, and where remediation measures have either
restored the environment to its original state, or to a state where it has a healthy and functioning ecosystem

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

3

base year
historical datum (such as year) against which a measurement is tracked over time

baseline
starting point used for comparisons
Note: In the context of energy and emissions reporting, the baseline is the projected energy consumption
or emissions in the absence of any reduction activity.

basic salary
	fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties, excluding any additional
remuneration, such as payments for overtime working or bonuses

benefit
	direct benefit provided in the form of financial contributions, care paid for by the organization, or the
reimbursement of expenses borne by the employee
Note: Redundancy payments over and above legal minimums, lay-off pay, extra employment injury benefit,
survivors’ benefits, and extra paid holiday entitlements can also be included as a benefit.

biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emission
emission of CO2 from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass

breach of customer privacy
	non-compliance with existing legal regulations and (voluntary) standards regarding the protection of
customer privacy

carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent
	measure used to compare the emissions from various types of greenhouse gas (GHG) based on their
global warming potential (GWP)
Note: T
 he CO2 equivalent for a gas is determined by multiplying the metric tons of the gas by the
associated GWP.

CFC-­11 (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent
measure used to compare various substances based on their relative ozone depletion potential (ODP)
Note: T
 he reference level of 1 is the potential of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane) and CFC-12
(dichlorodifluoromethane) to cause ozone depletion.

child
	person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling, whichever
is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational facilities are
insufficiently developed and a minimum age of 14 years applies. These countries of exception
are specified by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in response to a special application
by the country concerned and in consultation with representative organizations of employers
and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Convention 138, ‘Minimum Age Convention’, 1973, refers to both child labor and
young workers.

4

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

clawback
	repayment of previously received compensation required to be made by an executive to his or her employer
in the event certain conditions of employment or goals are not met

collective action to combat corruption
	voluntary engagement with initiatives and stakeholders to improve the broader operating environment and
culture, in order to combat corruption
Note: Collective action to combat corruption can include proactive collaboration with peers, governments
and the wider public sector, trade unions and civil society organizations.

collective bargaining
	all negotiations which take place between one or more employers or employers' organizations, on the
one hand, and one or more workers' organizations (trade unions), on the other, for determining working
conditions and terms of employment or for regulating relations between employers and workers
Note 1: Collective agreements can be at the level of the organization; at the industry level, in countries
where that is the practice; or at both.
Note 2: Collective agreements can cover specific groups of workers; for example, those performing a
specific activity or working at a specific location.
Note 3: This definition is based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 154, ‘Collective
Bargaining Convention’, 1981.

community development program
	plan that details actions to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse social and/or economic impacts,
and/or to identify opportunities or actions to enhance positive impacts of a project on the community

confirmed incident of corruption
incident of corruption that has been found to be substantiated
Note: Confirmed incidents of corruption do not include incidents of corruption that are still under
investigation in the reporting period.

conflict of interest
	situation where an individual is confronted with choosing between the requirements of his or her function
and his or her own private interests

conservation and efficiency initiative
	organizational or technological modification that allows a defined process or task to be carried out using
less energy
Note: Conservation and efficiency initiatives include process redesign, the conversion and retrofitting of
equipment such as energy-efficient lighting, or the elimination of unnecessary energy use due to
changes in behavior.

continued employability
adaptation to the changing demands of the workplace through the acquisition of new skills

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

5

corruption
‘abuse of entrusted power for private gain’,1 which can be instigated by individuals or organizations
Note: In the GRI Standards, corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud,
extortion, collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan,
fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something that
is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the enterprise’s business.2 This can
include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free goods, gifts, and holidays, or special personal services
provided for the purpose of an improper advantage, or that can result in moral pressure to receive
such an advantage.

customer privacy
right of the customer to privacy and personal refuge
Note 1: Customer privacy includes matters such as the protection of data; the use of information or
data for their original intended purpose only, unless specifically agreed otherwise; the obligation
to observe confidentiality; and the protection of information or data from misuse or theft.
Note 2: Customers are understood to include end-customers (consumers) as well as business-tobusiness customers.

defined benefit plan
post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan

defined contribution plan
	post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity
(a fund) and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does
not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and
prior periods

direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by an organization
Note 1: A GHG source is any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the atmosphere.
Note 2: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions can include the CO2 emissions from fuel consumption.

discrimination
	act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying benefits instead of
treating each person fairly on the basis of individual merit
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined as a course of comments or actions that are
unwelcome, or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to the person towards whom they
are addressed.

due diligence
	In the context of the GRI Standards, ‘due diligence’ refers to a process to identify, prevent, mitigate and
account for how an organization addresses its actual and potential negative impacts.
Note: This definition is based on the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011, and the United Nations (UN), ‘Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy”
Framework’, 2011.

1 Transparency International
2 These definitions are based on Transparency International, ‘Business Principles for Countering Bribery’, 2011.

6

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

employee
	individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization, according to national law or
its application

employee category
	breakdown of employees by level (such as senior management, middle management) and function
(such as technical, administrative, production)
Note: This information is derived from the organization’s own human resources system.

employee turnover
employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service

employment contract
	contract as recognized under national law or practice that can be written, verbal, or implicit (that is,
when all the characteristics of employment are present but without a written or witnessed verbal contract)
	Indefinite or permanent contract: A permanent employment contract is a contract with an employee,
for full-time or part-time work, for an indeterminate period.
	Fixed term or temporary contract: A fixed term employment contract is an employment contract as defined
above that ends when a specific time period expires, or when a specific task that has a time estimate
attached is completed. A temporary employment contract is of limited duration, and is terminated by
a specific event, including the end of a project or work phase or return of replaced employees.

employment type
	Full-time: A ‘full-time employee’ is an employee whose working hours per week, month, or year are defined
according to national legislation and practice regarding working time (such as national legislation which
defines that ‘full-time’ means a minimum of nine months per year and a minimum of 30 hours per week).
	Part-time: A ‘part-time employee’ is an employee whose working hours per week, month, or year are less
than ‘full-time’ as defined above.

energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
GHG emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and
steam consumed by an organization

energy reduction
amount of energy no longer used or needed to carry out the same processes or tasks
Note: Energy reduction does not include overall reduction in energy consumption from reducing
production capacity or outsourcing organizational activities.

entry level wage
full-time wage in the lowest employment category
Note: Intern or apprentice wages are not considered entry level wages.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

7

environmental laws and regulations
laws and regulations related to all types of environmental issues applicable to the organization
Note 1: Environmental issues can include those such as emissions, effluents, and waste, as well as material
use, energy, water, and biodiversity.
Note 2: Environmental laws and regulations can include binding voluntary agreements that are made with
regulatory authorities and developed as a substitute for implementing a new regulation.
Note 3: Voluntary agreements can be applicable if the organization directly joins the agreement, or if
public agencies make the agreement applicable to organizations in their territory through legislation
or regulation.

environmental protection expenditure
	expenditure on environmental protection by the organization, or on its behalf, to prevent, reduce, control,
and document environmental aspects, impacts, and hazards
Note: Environmental protection expenditures also include expenditures on disposal, treatment, sanitation,
and clean-up.

financial assistance
	direct or indirect financial benefits that do not represent a transaction of goods and services, but which
are an incentive or compensation for actions taken, the cost of an asset, or expenses incurred
Note: The provider of financial assistance does not expect a direct financial return from the assistance
offered.

forced or compulsory labor
	all work and service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the
said person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily
Note 1: T
 he most extreme examples of forced or compulsory labor are slave labor and bonded labor,
but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining workers in a state of forced labor.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labor include withholding identity papers, requiring compulsory deposits,
and compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to which they have not
previously agreed.
Note 3: This definition is based on International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, ‘Forced Labour
Convention’, 1930.

formal agreement
	written document signed by both parties declaring a mutual intention to abide by what is contained in
the documents
Note: A formal agreement can include, for example, a local collective bargaining agreement, or a national
or international framework agreement.

freedom of association
	
right of employers and workers to form, to join and to run their own organizations without prior
authorization or interference by the state or any other entity

full coverage
plan assets that meet or exceed plan obligations

8

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

global warming potential (GWP)
	value describing the radiative forcing impact of one unit of a given GHG relative to one unit of CO2
over a given period of time
Note: GWP values convert GHG emissions data for non-CO2 gases into units of CO2 equivalent.

governance body
	committee or board responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization, the effective monitoring
of management, and the accountability of management to the broader organization and its stakeholders

greenhouse gas (GHG)
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation

greenhouse gas (GHG) trade
purchase, sale or transfer of GHG emission offsets or allowances

grievance mechanism
system consisting of procedures, roles and rules for receiving complaints and providing remedy
Note: Effective grievance mechanisms are expected to be legitimate, accessible, predictable,
equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, and a source of continuous learning. For operationallevel mechanisms to be effective, they are expected to be based on engagement and dialogue.
For a description of each of these criteria, see Guiding Principle 31 in the United Nations (UN),
‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Implementing the United Nations “Protect,
Respect and Remedy” Framework’, 2011.

highest governance body
formalized group of persons charged with ultimate authority in an organization
Note: In instances where the highest governance body consists of two tiers, both tiers are to be included.

human rights clause
	specific term in a written agreement that defines minimum expectations of performance with respect to
human rights as a requirement for investment

human rights review
formal or documented assessment process that applies a set of human rights performance criteria

impact
	In the GRI Standards, unless otherwise stated, ‘impact’ refers to the effect an organization has on the
economy, the environment, and/or society, which in turn can indicate its contribution (positive or negative)
to sustainable development.
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, the term ‘impact’ can refer to positive, negative, actual, potential, direct,
indirect, short-term, long-term, intended, or unintended impacts.
Note 2: Impacts on the economy, environment, and/or society can also be related to consequences
for the organization itself. For example, an impact on the economy, environment, and/or society
can lead to consequences for the organization’s business model, reputation, or ability to achieve
its objectives.

indicator of diversity
indicator of diversity for which the organization gathers data
Note: Examples of indicators of diversity can include age, ancestry and ethnic origin, citizenship, creed,
disability, and gender.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

9

indigenous peoples
indigenous peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions distinguish them
from other sections of the national community, and whose status is regulated wholly or
partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their descent from
the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which the country belongs,
at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present state boundaries and who,
irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own social, economic, cultural and political
institutions.
Note: This definition comes from the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169,
‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention’, 1991.

indirect political contribution
	financial or in-kind support to political parties, their representatives, or candidates for office made
through an intermediary organization such as a lobbyist or charity, or support given to an organization
such as a think tank or trade association linked to or supporting particular political parties or causes

infrastructure
	facilities built primarily to provide a public service or good rather than a commercial purpose, and from
which an organization does not seek to gain direct economic benefit
Note: Examples of facilities can include water supply facilities, roads, schools, and hospitals, among others.

injury
non-fatal or fatal injury arising out of, or in the course of, work

injury rate
frequency of injuries, relative to the total time worked by all workers during the reporting period
Note: Injury rate can be calculated for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees). This is specified
in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

local community
	persons or groups of persons living and/or working in any areas that are economically, socially or
environmentally impacted (positively or negatively) by an organization’s operations
	Note: The local community can range from persons living adjacent to an organization’s operations,
to those living at a distance who are still likely to be impacted by these operations.

local minimum wage
minimum compensation for employment per hour, or other unit of time, allowed under law
Note: Some countries have numerous minimum wages, such as by state or province or by
employment category.

local supplier
	organization or person that provides a product or service to the reporting organization, and that is based in
the same geographic market as the reporting organization (that is, no trans-national payments are made to a
local supplier)
Note: The geographic definition of ‘local’ can include the community surrounding operations, a region
within a country or a country.

10

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

lost day
	time (‘days’) that cannot be worked (and are thus ‘lost’) as a consequence of a worker or workers being
unable to perform their usual work because of an occupational disease or accident
Note: A return to limited duty or alternative work for the same organization does not count as lost days.

lost day rate
impact of occupational diseases and accidents as reflected in time off work by the affected workers
Note 1: The lost day rate is expressed by comparing the total lost days to the total number of hours
scheduled to be worked by workers in the reporting period.
Note 2: Lost day rate can be calculated for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees). This is specified
in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

management approach disclosure
narrative description about how an organization manages its material topics and their related impacts
Note: Disclosures about an organization’s management approach also provide context for the information
reported using topic-specific Standards (series 200, 300, and 400).

marketing communication
	combination of strategies, systems, methods, and activities used by the organization to promote its
reputation, brands, products, and services to target audiences
Note: Marketing communications can include activities such as advertising, personal selling, promotion,
public relations, social media and sponsorship.

material topic
topic that reflects a reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts;
or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders
Note 1: For more information on identifying a material topic, see the Reporting Principles for defining
report content in GRI 101: Foundation.
Note 2: To prepare a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, an organization is required to report
on its material topics.
Note 3: Material topics can include, but are not limited to, the topics covered by the GRI Standards in the
200, 300, and 400 series.

non-renewable energy source
	energy source that cannot be replenished, reproduced, grown or generated in a short time period through
ecological cycles or agricultural processes
Note: Non-renewable energy sources can include fuel distilled from petroleum or crude oil, such as
gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, and heating oil; natural gas, such as compressed natural gas (CNG),
and liquefied natural gas (LNG); fuels extracted from natural gas processing and petroleum refining,
such as butane, propane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG); coal; and nuclear power.

non-renewable material
resource that does not renew in short time periods
Note: Examples of non-renewable materials can include minerals, metals, oil, gas, or coal.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

11

occupational disease
disease arising from a work situation or activity, or from a work-related injury
Note: Examples of work situations or activities that can cause occupational diseases can include
stress or regular exposure to harmful chemicals.

occupational disease rate
	frequency of occupational diseases relative to the total time worked by all workers during the
reporting period
Note: Occupational disease rate can be calculated for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees).
This is specified in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

operation with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local
communities
	an operation, considered alone or in combination with the characteristics of local communities, that has
a higher than average potential of negative impacts, or actual negative impacts, on the social, economic
or environmental well-being of local communities
Note: Examples of negative impacts on local communities can include impacts to local community health
and safety.

other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
	indirect GHG emissions not included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions that occur outside of
the organization, including both upstream and downstream emissions

ozone-depleting substance (ODS)
	substance with an ozone depletion potential (ODP) greater than 0 that can deplete the stratospheric
ozone layer
Note: Most ODS are controlled under the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), ‘Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer’, 1987, and its amendments, and include
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), halons, and methyl bromide.

parental leave
leave granted to men and women employees on the grounds of the birth of a child

political contribution
financial or in-kind support given directly or indirectly to political parties, their elected representatives,
or persons seeking political office
Note 1: Financial contributions can include donations, loans, sponsorships, retainers, or the purchase
of tickets for fundraising events.
Note 2: In-kind contributions can include advertising, use of facilities, design and printing, donation
of equipment, or the provision of board membership, employment or consultancy work for
elected politicians or candidates for office.

product
article or substance that is offered for sale or is part of a service delivered by an organization

product and service information and labeling
	information and labeling are used synonymously, and describe communication delivered with the product
or service, describing its characteristics

12

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

product or service category
	group of related products or services sharing a common, managed set of features that satisfy the specific
needs of a selected market

protected area
geographic area that is designated, regulated, or managed to achieve specific conservation objectives

reclaimed
	refers to collecting, reusing, or recycling products and their packaging materials at the end of their
useful lives
Note 1: Collection and treatment can be carried out by the manufacturer of the product or by
a contractor.
Note 2: Reclaimed items can include products and their packaging materials that are collected by or on
behalf of the organization; separated into raw materials (such as steel, glass, paper, some kinds
of plastic) or components; and/or used by the organization or other users.

recycled input material
	material that replaces virgin materials, which are purchased or obtained from internal or external sources,
and that are not by-products and non-product outputs (NPO) produced by the organization

reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
	decrease in GHG emissions or increase in removal or storage of GHG from the atmosphere, relative to
baseline emissions
Note: Primary effects will result in GHG reductions, as will some secondary effects. An initiative’s total
GHG reductions are quantified as the sum of its associated primary effect(s) and any significant
secondary effects (which may involve decreases or countervailing increases in GHG emissions).

regular performance and career development review
review based on criteria known to the employee and his or her superior
	Note 1: The review is undertaken with the knowledge of the employee at least once per year.
Note 2: The review can include an evaluation by the employee’s direct superior, peers, or a wider range
of employees. The review can also involve the human resources department.

remuneration
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years of service,
bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit payments, overtime, time
owed, and any additional allowances, such as transportation, living and childcare allowances.

renewable energy source
	energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or
agricultural processes
Note: Renewable energy sources can include geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, and biomass.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

13

renewable material
	material that is derived from plentiful resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles or
agricultural processes, so that the services provided by these and other linked resources are not
endangered and remain available for the next generation
Note: The following references informed the definition of renewable material:
• European Environment Information and Observation Network (EIONET), GEMET Thesaurus –
Renewable Raw Material, http://www.eionet.europa.eu/gemet/concept?ns=1&cp=7084, accessed
on 1 September 2016.
• National Non-Food Crops Centre (NNFCC), Glossary - Renewable Materials,
http://www.nnfcc.co.uk/glossary, accessed on 1 September 2016.
• Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Resource Productivity
in the G8 and the OECD – A report in the Framework of the Kobe 3R Action Plan,
http://www.oecd.org/env/waste/47944428.pdf, accessed on 1 September 2016.
• United Nations (UN), European Commission (EC), International Monetary Fund (IMF),
Organisation for Economic and Co-operation and Development (OECD), and World Bank,
Integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting – Handbook of National Accounting, 2003.

reporting period
specific time span covered by the information reported
Note: Unless otherwise stated, the GRI Standards require information from the organization’s chosen
reporting period.

Reporting Principle
	concept that describes the outcomes a report is expected to achieve, and that guides decisions made
throughout the reporting process around report content or quality

risk control for diseases
practice that seeks to limit exposure to and transmission of diseases

Scope of GHG emissions
classification of the operational boundaries where GHG emissions occur
Note 1: Scope classifies whether GHG emissions are created by an organization itself, or are created
by other related organizations, for example electricity suppliers or logistics companies.
Note 2: There are three classifications of Scope: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3.
Note 3: The classification of Scope derives from the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard’, Revised Edition, 2004.

sector
subdivision of an economy, society or sphere of activity, defined on the basis of some common characteristic
Note: Sector types can include classifications such as the public or private sector, and industry specific
categories such as the education, technology, or financial sectors.

security personnel
	individuals employed for the purposes of guarding property of the organization; crowd control;
loss prevention; and escorting persons, goods, and valuables

14

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

senior executive
	top ranking member of the management of an organization that includes a Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
and individuals reporting directly to the CEO or the highest governance body
Note: Each organization defines which members of its management teams are senior executives.

serious disease
occupational or non-occupational related impairment of health with serious consequences for workers
Note 1: Serious diseases can also impact workers’ families and their communities.
Note 2: Serious diseases can include HIV/AIDS, diabetes, repetitive strain injuries (RSI), malaria and stress.
Note 3: Serious diseases can be reported for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees). This is
specified in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

service
action of an organization to meet a demand or need

services supported
	services that provide a public benefit either through direct payment of operating costs or through staffing
the facility or service with an organization’s own employees
Note: Public benefit can also include public services.

significant air emission
air emission regulated under international conventions and/or national laws or regulations
Note: Significant air emissions include those listed on environmental permits for an organization’s
operations.

significant impact on biodiversity
	impact that can adversely affect the integrity of a geographic area or region, either directly or indirectly,
by substantially changing its ecological features, structures, and functions across its whole area, and over
the long term, so that habitat, its population levels, and the particular species that make the habitat
important cannot be sustained
Note 1: On a species level, a significant impact causes a population decline or change in distribution so that
natural recruitment (reproduction or immigration from unaffected areas) cannot return to former
levels within a limited number of generations.
Note 2: A significant impact can also affect subsistence or commercial resource use to the degree that the
well-being of users is affected over the long term.

significant operational change
	alteration to the organization’s pattern of operations that can potentially have significant positive or negative
impacts on workers performing the organization’s activities
Note: Significant operational change can include restructuring, outsourcing of operations, closures,
expansions, new openings, takeovers, sale of all or part of the organization, or mergers.

significant spill
spill that is included in the organization’s financial statements, for example due to resulting liabilities,
or is recorded as a spill by the organization

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

15

spill
	accidental release of a hazardous substance that can affect human health, land, vegetation, water bodies,
and ground water

stakeholder
	entity or individual that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the reporting
organization’s activities, products and services, or whose actions can reasonably be expected to
affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives
Note 1: Stakeholders include entities or individuals whose rights under law or international conventions
provide them with legitimate claims vis-à-vis the organization.
Note 2: Stakeholders can include those who are invested in the organization (such as employees and
shareholders), as well as those who have other relationships to the organization (such as other
workers who are not employees, suppliers, vulnerable groups, local communities, and NGOs
or other civil society organizations, among others).

standard benefit:
benefit typically offered to the majority of full-time employees
Note: Standard benefits do not need to be offered to every single full-time employee of the
organization. The intention of reporting on standard benefits is to disclose what full-time
employees can reasonably expect.

substantiated complaint
	written statement by regulatory or similar official body addressed to the organization that identifies
breaches of customer privacy, or a complaint lodged with the organization that has been recognized
as legitimate by the organization

supplier
	organization or person that provides a product or service used in the supply chain of the reporting
organization
Note 1: A
 supplier is further characterized by a genuine direct or indirect commercial relationship with
the organization.
Note 2: Examples of suppliers can include, but are not limited to:
• Brokers: Persons or organizations that buy and sell products, services, or assets for others,
including contracting agencies that supply labor.
• Consultants: Persons or organizations that provide expert advice and services on a legally
recognized professional and commercial basis. Consultants are legally recognized as self-employed
or are legally recognized as employees of another organization.
• Contractors: Persons or organizations working onsite or offsite on behalf of an organization.
A contractor can contract their own workers directly, or contract sub-contractors or
independent contractors.
• Distributors: Persons or organizations that supply products to others.
• Franchisees or licensees: Persons or organizations that are granted a franchise or license by the
reporting organization. Franchises and licenses permit specified commercial activities, such as the
production and sale of a product.

16

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

• Home workers: Persons at home or in other premises of their choice, other than the workplace
of the employer, who perform work for remuneration and which results in a product or service
as specified by the employer, irrespective of who provides the equipment, materials or other
inputs used.
• Independent contractors: Persons or organizations working for an organization, a contractor,
or a sub-contractor.
• Manufacturers: Persons or organizations that make products for sale.
• Primary producers: Persons or organizations that grow, harvest, or extract raw materials.
• Sub-contractors: Persons or organizations working onsite or offsite on behalf of an organization
that have a direct contractual relationship with a contractor or sub-contractor, but not
necessarily with the organization. A sub-contractor can contract their own workers directly
or contract independent contractors.
• Wholesalers: Persons or organizations that sell products in large quantities to be retailed
by others.

supplier screening
	formal or documented process that applies a set of performance criteria as one of the factors in
determining whether to proceed in a relationship with a supplier

supply chain
sequence of activities or parties that provides products or services to an organization

sustainable development/sustainability
	development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs
Note 1: Sustainable development encompasses three dimensions: economic, environmental and social.
Note 2: Sustainable development refers to broader environmental and societal interests, rather than
to the interests of specific organizations.
Note 3: In the GRI Standards, the terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used
interchangeably.

termination payment
	all payments made and benefits given to a departing executive or member of the highest governance
body whose appointment is terminated
Note: Termination payments extend beyond monetary payments to the giving of property and the
automatic or accelerated vesting of incentives given in connection with a person’s departure
from office.

topic
economic, environmental or social subject
Note 1: In the GRI Standards, topics are grouped according to the three dimensions of sustainable
development: economic, environmental and social.
Note 2: To prepare a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, an organization is required to report
on its material topics.

topic Boundary
	description of where the impacts occur for a material topic, and the organization’s involvement with
those impacts
Note: Topic Boundaries vary based on the topics reported.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

17

total water withdrawal
	the sum of all water drawn into the boundaries of the organization from all sources for any use over
the course of the reporting period
Note: Sources of water withdrawal can include surface water, ground water, rainwater, and municipal
water supply.

two-tier board system
	governance system found in some jurisdictions where supervision and management are separated or
where local law provides for a supervisory board drawn from non-executives to oversee an executive
management board

under-represented social group
	population that, relative to its numbers in a given society, has less opportunity to express its economic,
social, or political needs and views
Note: Specific groups included under this definition are not uniform for every organization. An organization
identifies relevant groups based on its operating context.

value chain
	An organization’s value chain encompasses the activities that convert input into output by adding value.
It includes entities with which the organization has a direct or indirect business relationship and which
either (a) supply products or services that contribute to the organization’s own products or services,
or (b) receive products or services from the organization.
Note 1: This definition is based on United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human
Rights: An Interpretive Guide, 2012.
Note 2: The value chain covers the full range of an organization’s upstream and downstream activities,
which encompass the full life cycle of a product or service, from its conception to its end use.

vulnerable group
	set or subset of persons with some specific physical, social, political, or economic condition or characteristic
that places the group at a higher risk of suffering a burden, or at a risk of suffering a disproportionate burden
of the social, economic or environmental impacts of the organization’s operations
Note 1: V
 ulnerable groups can include children and youth, the elderly, people with disabilities,
ex-combatants, the internally displaced, refugees or returning refugees, HIV/AIDS-affected
households, indigenous peoples, and ethnic minorities.
Note 2: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.

waste disposal method
method by which waste is treated or disposed of
Note: Waste disposal methods can include composting, reuse, recycling, recovery, incineration, landfill,
deep well injection, and on-site storage.

water recycling and reuse
	act of processing used water and wastewater through another cycle before discharge to final treatment
and discharge to the environment
	Note: Water recycling and reuse can include wastewater recycled back in the same process or higher use
of recycled water in the process cycle; wastewater recycled and reused in a different process, but
within the same facility; and wastewater reused at another of the organization’s facilities.

18

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

worker
person that performs work
Note 1: The term ‘workers’ includes, but is not limited to, employees.
Note 2: Further examples of workers include interns, apprentices, self-employed persons, and
persons working for organizations other than the reporting organization, e.g., for suppliers.
Note 3: In the context of the GRI Standards, in some cases it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is to be used.

work-related fatality
	death of a worker occurring in the current reporting period, arising from an occupational disease or
injury sustained or contracted while performing work that is controlled by the organization or that is
being performed in workplaces that the organization controls
Note: Work-related fatalities can be reported for a specific category of workers (e.g., employees).
This is specified in the respective disclosure in the GRI Standards.

GRI Standards Glossary 2016

19

GRI Standards Glossary

Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed
by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multistakeholder consultative process involving representatives from organizations and
report information users from around the world. While the GRI Board of Directors
and GSSB encourage use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)
and related Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of
reports based fully or partially on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations are
the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Board of Directors,
GSSB nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for
any consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of
reports based on the GRI Standards and related Interpretations.

Copyright and trademark notice

standards@globalreporting.org
www.globalreporting.org
GRI
PO Box 10039
1001 EA
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
20

This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The reproduction and distribution of this document for information and/or use in
preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission from GRI.
However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored,
translated, or transferred in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose without prior written
permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are trademarks of Stichting Global
Reporting Initiative.
© 2016 GRI
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 978-90-8866-083-2

